

--- PAGE 1 ---
Distributed Backdoor Attacks on Federated Graph Learning and
Certified Defenses
Yuxin Yang1,2, Qiang Li1, Jinyuan Jia3, Yuan Hong4, Binghui Wang2
1College of Computer Science and Technology, Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin, China
2Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago, Illinois, USA 3The Pennsylvania State University, University Park
Pennsylvania, USA 4University of Connecticut, Storrs, Connecticut, USA
yuxiny22@mails.jlu.edu.cn, li_qiang@jlu.edu.cn, jinyuan@psu.edu, yuan.hong@uconn.edu, bwang70@iit.edu
ABSTRACT
Federated graph learning (FedGL) is an emerging federated learn-
ing (FL) framework that extends FL to learn graph data from di-
verse sources. FL for non-graph data has shown to be vulnerable to
backdoor attacks, which inject a shared backdoor trigger into the
training data such that the trained backdoored FL model can pre-
dict the testing data containing the trigger as the attacker desires.
However, FedGL against backdoor attacks is largely unexplored,
and no effective defense exists.
In this paper, we aim to address such significant deficiency. First,
we propose an effective, stealthy, and persistent backdoor attack
on FedGL. Our attack uses a subgraph as the trigger and designs
an adaptive trigger generator that can derive the effective trigger
location and shape for each graph. Our attack shows that empiri-
cal defenses are hard to detect/remove our generated triggers. To
mitigate it, we further develop a certified defense for any back-
doored FedGL model against the trigger with any shape at any
location. Our defense involves carefully dividing a testing graph
into multiple subgraphs and designing a majority vote-based ensem-
ble classifier on these subgraphs. We then derive the deterministic
certified robustness based on the ensemble classifier and prove
its tightness. We extensively evaluate our attack and defense on
six graph datasets. Our attack results show our attack can obtain
> 90% backdoor accuracy in almost all datasets. Our defense re-
sults show, in certain cases, the certified accuracy for clean testing
graphs against an arbitrary trigger with size 20 can be close to the
normal accuracy under no attack, while there is a moderate gap in
other cases. Moreover, the certified backdoor accuracy is always 0
for backdoored testing graphs generated by our attack, implying
our defense can fully mitigate the attack. Source code is available
at: https://github.com/Yuxin104/Opt-GDBA.
CCS CONCEPTS
•Security and privacy → Distributed systems security.
Binghui Wang is the corresponding author.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
© 2024 ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x/YY/MM
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
KEYWORDS
Federated Graph Learning, Backdoor Attacks, Certified Defenses
ACM Reference Format:
Yuxin Yang1,2, Qiang Li1, Jinyuan Jia3, Yuan Hong4, Binghui Wang2 . 2024.
Distributed Backdoor Attacks on Federated Graph Learning and Certified
Defenses. In Proceedings of October 14–18, 2024 (Conference acronym CCS’24).
ACM, New York, NY, USA, 19 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
1 INTRODUCTION
Graph is a pervasive data type consisting of nodes and edges, where
nodes represent entities and edges represent relationships among
entities. Learning on graph data (orgraph learning) has gained great
attention in both academia [ 13, 25, 32, 55, 86] and industry [ 29,
62, 91, 99] in the past several years. A particular task, i.e., graph
classification, predicting the label of a graph has applications in
a wide variety of domains including healthcare, bioinformatics,
transportation, financial services, to name a few [39, 76, 98].
Despite notable advancements in graph learning, most require
the consolidation of graph data from various sources into a single
machine. With the increasing importance on data privacy [19], this
requirement becomes infeasible. For instance, a third-party service
provider trains a graph learning model for a bunch of financial
institutions to help detect anomalous customers. Each institution
has its own graph dataset of customers, where each graph can be
a customer’s transaction records with other customers, and each
customer also has personal information. Due to the business compe-
tition and rigorous privacy policies, each institution’s customer data
cannot be shared with other institutions or the service provider.
Federated Learning (FL) [43], a new distributed learning para-
digm, aims to address the data isolation/privacy issue. Specifically,
FL enables a central server coordinating multiple clients to collabo-
ratively train a machine learning model without the need of sharing
clients’ data. Federated graph learning (FedGL) generalizes graph
learning in the FL setting and has attracted increasing attention
recently [1, 26, 27, 48, 53, 59, 66, 70, 75, 82, 83, 92] with various
successful applications such as disease prediction [48], molecular
classification [27], and recommendation [1, 75]. In FedGL for graph
classification, each client owns a set of graphs, and the server and
the participating clients collaboratively learn a shared graph classi-
fier without accessing the clients’ graphs. The learnt shared graph
classifier is then used by all clients for testing.
However, recent works show that FL for non-graph data (e.g.,
images, videos) is vulnerable to backdoor attacks [2, 20, 21, 52, 68,
80, 96]. In backdoor attacks on FL, a fraction of malicious clients
is controlled by an attacker. The malicious clients inject a back-
door trigger (e.g., a sticker) into part of their training data (e.g.,
arXiv:2407.08935v1  [cs.CR]  12 Jul 2024

--- PAGE 2 ---
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
Yuxin Yang1,2, Qiang Li1, Jinyuan Jia3, Yuan Hong4, Binghui Wang2
images) and flag these backdoored training data with an attacker-
chosen target label (different from their true label). The clients’
backdoored data and clean data are used for FL training, such that
the trained backdoored FL model will predict malicious clients’
testing data with the trigger as the target label, while those without
the trigger still as the true label. While backdoor attacks on FL for
non-graph data is widely studied, those for graph data is underex-
plored. Note that backdoor attacks on FedGL would cause serious
issues for safety/security-critical applications. For instance, Alibaba
and Amazon have deployed and open-sourced their FedGL frame-
work (FederatedScope-GNN [ 70] and FedML-GNN [ 14]). When
these FedGL packages are used for disease prediction [48] but back-
doored, the patients’ safety could be jeopardized.
In this paper, we aim to design effective backdoor attacks on
FedGL, as well as effective defense to mitigate the backdoor attack.
Challenges in designing effective backdoors on FedGL: Compar-
ing with non-graph data, designing effective backdoors on graph
data used by FedGL faces unique challenges: 1) Backdoor attacks on
non-graph data (e.g., images) require same input size, while graph
data have varying sizes (in terms of number of nodes and edges); 2)
Backdoor attacks on non-graph data can leverage shared property
(e.g., important pixels in images with the same label are spatially-
close), while graph-data do not have such property: even graphs
have the same label, their locations of crucial nodes can be signifi-
cantly different (see Figure 3); 3) Graph backdoors solely based on
node features (like pixels in images) is not effective enough. Edge
information is equally important and should be considered.
We notice a recent work [85] proposed a random backdoor attack
on FedGL inspired by [80, 95]. Specifically, it uses a subgraph as a
trigger, and each malicious client randomly generates the trigger
shape and randomly picks nodes from local graphs as the location
to inject the trigger. However, our results show this attack attains
unsatisfactory backdoor performance (see Table 1).
Our optimized distributed backdoor attacks on FedGL: We ob-
serve the ineffectiveness of the existing backdoor attack on FedGL
is primarily due to the random nature of the trigger, i.e., it does not
use any graph or client information unique to FedGL. An effective
backdoor attack on FedGL should design the trigger by explicitly
considering the individual graph and client information. To bridge
the gap, we propose an optimized DBA on FedGL (termed Opt-
GDBA). As a trigger consists of trigger location, size, and shape,
our Opt-GDBA hence designs an adaptive trigger generator that
adaptively optimizes the location and shape of the subgraph trigger
and learns a local trigger for each graph using the graph and client
information. Specifically, the trigger generator consists of three
modules: 1) the first module obtains nodes’ importance scores by
leveraging both the edge and node feature information in a given in-
put graph; 2) the second module learns the trigger location based on
the nodes’ importance scores. In particular, we design two trigger
location learning schemes, i.e., Definable-Trigger and Customized-
Trigger, where the first scheme predefines the trigger node size and
the second one automatically identifies the important nodes in the
graph as the trigger nodes; 3) given the trigger location, the third
module further learns the trigger shape (i.e., determines the trig-
ger’s node features and edges) via introducing edge/node attention
and local trigger differentiation mechanisms. By incorporating our
adaptive trigger generator into the backdoored FedGL training, the
generated backdoored graphs can be more stealthy and diverse, and
make the backdoor attack much more effective and persistent.
Challenges in designing effective defenses on backdoored FedGL:
Once a backdoored FedGL model is trained, we test empirical de-
fenses, e.g., based on backdoor detection or backdoor removal, are
hard to mitigate the backdoored effect induced by our Opt-GDBA
(see Tables 3 and 4). Moreover, empirical defenses can be often bro-
ken by adaptive attacks [68]. Hence, we focus on certified defenses
with provable guarantees. Particularly, we expect the defense cani)
provably predict the correct label for clean testing graphs injected with
an arbitrary trigger (shape and location) with a bounded size; and
ii) provably predict a non-target label for backdoored testing graphs,
both with probability 100%. However, it is extremely challenging to
design such a certified defense due to: 1) the size of testing graphs
varies; 2) should not rely on a specific model; 3) a trigger can arbitrary
perturb any edges and nodes in a testing graph; and 4) a deterministic
guarantee. Note that certified defenses for non-graph data [64, 72]
require same size inputs, which inherently cannot be applied to
graph data. Existing certified defenses for graph data [ 5, 65, 95]
are also insufficient: they are either against node feature or edge
perturbation, but not both; their robustness guarantee is for a fixed
input size or specific model, or incorrect with a certain probability.
Our certified defense against backdoored FedGL: We design an
effective majority-voting based certified defense to address all above
limitations. Majority-voting is a generic ensemble method [12], and
different methods develop the respective voter for their own pur-
pose (see more details in Section 7). Our tailored majority-vote
based defense includes three critical steps. First, we carefully divide
a (clean or backdoored) testing graph into multiple subgraphs such
that the graph division is deterministic, and for any pair of sub-
graphs, their nodes and edges are non-overlapped. Second, we build
a majority vote-based ensemble graph classifier for predicting these
subgraphs and each prediction on a subgraph is treated as a vote.
This classifier ensures a bounded number of subgraphs’ predictions
be different after injecting the trigger and the expectations i) and ii)
be satisfied (per Theorems 1 & 3). Third, we derive the deterministic
robustness guarantee of the ensemble classifier against a (bounded
size) trigger with arbitrary edge and node (feature) perturbations.
We also prove that our certified defense is tight.
Empirical and theoretical evaluations: We extensively evalu-
ate our Opt-GDBA attack and certified defense on six benchmark
graph datasets. Our attack results show that: 1) Compared with the
existing work [85], Opt-GDBA has a gain from 30% to 46% on the
backdoor performance, and generates triggers with less number
of nodes or/and edges; 2) The Customized-Trigger scheme is more
stealthy than the Definable-Trigger scheme, indicating it uncovers
more important nodes in the trigger; 3) Our generated backdoored
graphs are persistent and hard to be detected or removed.
We further test our defense on the backdoored FedGL trained
with our attack. Our defense results show that: 1) In some cases, the
certified main accuracy against a trigger arbitrarily perturbing 20
nodes/edges in total can be close to the accuracy without attack; 2)
The certified backdoor accuracy in all datasets is 0, which indicates
the backdoored testing graphs generated by our Opt-GDBA are
completely broken by our defense.

--- PAGE 3 ---
Distributed Backdoor Attacks on Federated Graph Learning and Certified Defenses
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
Contributions: We summarize our main contributions as below:
• We propose Opt-GDBA, an optimized DBA to FedGL, that is
effective, stealthy, and persistent.
• We develop a certified defense applicable for any (backdoored)
FedGL against any graph structure and node feature perturbation.
Moreover, our robustness guarantee is deterministic and tight.
• Our extensive empirical and theoretical evaluations verify the
effectiveness of our proposed attack and defense.
2 BACKGROUND AND PROBLEM DEFINITION
2.1 Federated Graph Learning (FedGL)
We denote 𝐺 = (V, E, X) as a graph where V is the node set, E
is the edge set, and X ∈ R| V | ×𝑑 is the node feature matrix, with
𝑑 the number of features and |V | the total number of nodes. We
let A ∈ { 0, 1} | V | × | V |be the adjacency matrix with 𝐴𝑢,𝑣 = 1, if
(𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ E , and 0, otherwise. A hence contains all edge information
in 𝐺. We consider graph classification as the task of interest, where
each graph 𝐺 has a label 𝑦 from a label set Y. Graph learning (GL)
takes a graph 𝐺 as input and learns a graph classifier, denoted as 𝑓 ,
that outputs an estimated graph label, i.e., 𝑓 : 𝐺 − → Y.
FedGL extends GL in the FL setting. Assume 𝐶 clients C =
{1, 2, · · ·, 𝐶} and a server participating in FedGL. Each client𝑖 has a
set of labeled training graphsG𝑖 = {(𝐺𝑖
1, 𝑦𝑖
1), · · ·, (𝐺𝑖
| G𝑖 |, 𝑦𝑖
| G𝑖 | )}. In
a 𝑡-th round, the server randomly selects a subset of clients C𝑡 ⊂ C
and broadcasts the current global model 𝜃𝑡 on the server to C𝑡 . A
client 𝑖 ∈ C 𝑡 updates its local model 𝜃𝑖
𝑡 = 𝜕𝜃𝑡 𝐿(G𝑖 ; 𝜃𝑡 ) using its
training graphs G𝑖 and the shared 𝜃𝑡 , and submits 𝜃𝑖
𝑡 to the server.
Here 𝐿(G𝑖 ; 𝜃𝑡 ) is a loss function used by the client 𝑖, e.g., cross-
entropy loss. The server then aggregates the C𝑡 clients’ models
{𝜃𝑖
𝑡 }𝑖 ∈ C𝑡 to learn the global model 𝜃𝑡 +1 for the next iteration using
some aggregation algorithm. For instance, when using the common
average aggregation [43, 66], 𝜃𝑡 +1 = 1
| C𝑡 |
Í
𝑖 ∈ C𝑡 𝜃𝑖
𝑡 . Next, the server
randomly selects a new subset of clients C𝑡 +1 ⊂ C and broadcasts
𝜃𝑡 +1 to them. This process is repeated until the global model con-
verges or reaching the maximal iterations. The final global model is
shared with clients for their task, e.g., classify their testing graphs.
2.2 Backdoor Attacks on FedGL
In backdoor attacks on FedGL, malicious clients inject a subgraph
trigger (consisting of edges and nodes with features) into part of
their training graphs and set backdoored graphs with a target label.
Depending on how the trigger is designed, a recent work [ 85]
proposed two attacks: centralized backdoor attack (CBA) inspired
by [95], and distributed backdoor attack (DBA) inspired by [80]. We
denote the two attacks asRand-GCBA and Rand-GDBA, respectively,
where the prefix “Rand” means malicious clientsrandomly generate
the shape of the trigger andrandomly choose nodes from their clean
graphs as the location to inject the trigger.
Rand-GCBA: All malicious clients use ashared trigger 𝜅. In each to-
be-backdoored graph, malicious clients randomly sample a subset
of nodes from the graph as the trigger location and replace the
connections of these nodes with the trigger 𝜅. Then each malicious
client 𝑖 iteratively learns its local backdoored model 𝜃𝑖
𝐵 as below:
𝜃𝑖
𝐵 = arg min𝜃 𝑖
𝐵
𝐿(G𝑖
𝐵 ∪ G𝑖
𝐶 ; 𝜃 ), (1)
Figure 1: Comparing the triggers of the backdoor attacks on
FedGL: (b) Rand-GCBA, (c) Rand-GDBA, and (d) our Opt-
GDBA. Opt-GDBA strategically selects critical nodes and
their connected edges in individual graphs, resulting in more
effective local triggers and the combined global trigger.
where G𝑖
𝐵 = {𝑅(𝐺𝑖
𝑗 , 𝜅), 𝑦𝐵 } is a set of backdoored graphs, 𝑅(𝐺𝑖
𝑗 , 𝜅)
is function that generates a backdoored graph of𝐺𝑖
𝑗 by attaching the
trigger 𝜅, and 𝑦𝐵 denotes the target label. 𝜃 is the global model. G𝑖
𝐶
contains the remaining clean graphs in G𝑖, and |G𝑖
𝐵 | + |G 𝑖
𝐶 | = |G𝑖 |.
The server will aggregate the local models of chosen malicious
clients and normally trained benign clients. The final backdoored
graph classifier, denoted as 𝑓𝐵, is shared with all clients. During
testing, malicious clients will use the same𝜅 for their testing graphs,
but the trigger location is randomly chosen.
Rand-GDBA: Each malicious client 𝑖 has its own local trigger 𝜅𝑖
(often sparser/smaller than 𝜅), and injects 𝜅𝑖 into a fraction of its
training graphs G𝑖, where the trigger location is randomly chosen.
Then each malicious client generates its backdoored graphs G𝑖
𝐵 =
{𝑅(𝐺𝑖
𝑗 , 𝜅𝑖 ), 𝑦𝐵 } for training (i.e., minimizing the loss in Equation (1)).
During testing, all malicious clients’ triggers{𝜅𝑖 } will be combined
into a single one. The combined trigger, with a random location,
will be injected into testing graphs.
Rand-GDBA is shown to be more effective than Rand-GCBA [85].
Figure 1 shows example shared trigger in Rand-GCBA, local triggers
in Rand-GDBA across clients, and triggers in our attack.
2.3 Threat Model
We aim to understand the robustness of FedGL from both the at-
tacker’s and defender’s perspective. As an attacker, we expect to
design an effective and stealthy DBA to FedGL during training. As
a defender, in contrast, we expect to design an effective certified
defense against the worst-case DBA on a backdoored FedGL model.
Attacker: We assume the attacker manipulates a fraction (say 𝜌)
of the total 𝐶 clients, namely malicious clients.
• Attacker’s knowledge:All malicious clients only know their
own training graphs and the shared global model in the whole
of (backdoored) FedGL training.
• Attacker’s capability:Malicious clients can inject a subgraph
trigger into any location/part of their training graphs during
training. To ensure effectiveness and stealthiness for the attack,

--- PAGE 4 ---
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
Yuxin Yang1,2, Qiang Li1, Jinyuan Jia3, Yuan Hong4, Binghui Wang2
we follow [80, 85] to inject the trigger in every training iteration,
but its size (w.r.t. number of nodes or/and edges) is small.
• Attacker’s objective: Malicious clients aim to learn a back-
doored FedGL model such that: it predicts the backdoored testing
graphs as the target label, while correctly predicting the clean
testing graphs. This implies the model will achieve a high back-
door accuracy as well as a high main task accuracy .
Defender: The defender aims to build a certifiably robust defense,
under which the learnt backdoored FedGL can achieve two goals.
• High certified main task accuracy: provably predict correct la-
bels as many as possible for clean testing graphs against arbitrary
trigger (any shape and location) with a bounded size.
• Low certified backdoor accuracy: provably predict the target
label as few as possible for backdoored testing graphs (that are
generated by our Opt-GDBA).
3 OPTIMIZED DBAS ON FEDGL
Recall the existing DBA to FedGL generates triggers with random
locations and random shape, and obtains unsatisfactory backdoor
performance. We propose an optimized DBA on FedGL (called Opt-
GDBA) to address the limitation. Our Opt-GDBA designs an adap-
tive trigger generator to adaptively optimize the trigger location
and shape by integrating the edge and node feature information in
individual graphs. See Figure 2 for the pipeline of Opt-GDBA.
3.1 Adaptive Trigger Generator
The proposed adaptive trigger generator consists of three modules:
1) node importance score learning, 2) trigger location learning, and
3) trigger shape learning . For simplicity, we use a client 𝑖’s graph
𝐺𝑖 = (V𝑖, E𝑖, X𝑖 ) with the adjacency matrix A𝑖 for illustration. We
first obtain the nodes’ importance scores using module 1). We next
input the nodes’ scores to module 2) to decide the trigger location
with a predefined or customized trigger size. Finally, module 3)
learns the trigger shape and generates the backdoored graph 𝐺𝑖
𝐵
for 𝐺𝑖 together with module 2). Detailed architecture of all the
described networks below are deferred in Appendix A.
1) Node importance score learning. The goal is to measure the
node importance so that the trigger can be placed on the important
nodes. Specifically, we leverage both the edges and node features
in 𝐺𝑖 to decide the node importance.
First, we define two networks: EdgeView(·) and NodeView(·).
EdgeView(·) characterizes the node importance from the edge view,
and the extracted node importance scores from A𝑖 are denoted by
e𝑖 ∈ R| V𝑖 |. Instead, NodeView(·) characterizes the node impor-
tance from the node feature view, and the extracted node impor-
tance scores from X𝑖 are denoted by n𝑖 ∈ R| V𝑖 |. Formally,
e𝑖 = EdgeView(A𝑖 ), n𝑖 = NodeView(X𝑖 ), (2)
where e𝑖 and n𝑖 are constrained to have a value range (0, 1).
We then calculate the nodes’ importance scores, denoted bys𝑖,
as the element-wise product ⊙ of vectors e𝑖 and n𝑖 as below:
s𝑖 = e𝑖 ⊙ n𝑖 . (3)
2) Trigger location learning. With nodes’ importance scores, we
design two schemes to decide the trigger location in each graph:
Definable-Trigger and Customized-Trigger.
Algorithm 1 𝑘-means_gap to learn customized trigger size
Input: Nodes’ scoress𝑖 , maximum trigger size 𝑛∗
𝑡𝑟𝑖 .
Output: Important nodes V𝑖
𝑐𝑢𝑠 .
1: s𝑖 = s𝑖 /


s𝑖


1
2: for 𝑘 = 1, 2, ..., 𝐾 do
3: 𝐶𝑖 , 𝜇𝑖 = 𝑘-means (s𝑖 )
4: 𝑉𝑘 = Í𝑘
𝑖=1
Í
𝑥 𝑗 ∈𝐶𝑖


𝑥 𝑗 − 𝜇 𝑗


2
5: for 𝑏 = 1, 2, ..., 𝐵 do
6: 𝑥 𝑗,𝑏 = sample(|s𝑖 |) in [0, 1]
7: 𝐶𝑖,𝑏 , 𝜇𝑖,𝑏 = 𝑘-means (𝑥 𝑗,𝑏 )
8: 𝑉 ∗
𝑘𝑏 = Í𝑘
𝑖=1
Í
𝑥 𝑗𝑏 ∈𝐶𝑖𝑏


𝑥 𝑗𝑏 − 𝜇𝑖𝑏


2
9: end for
10: 𝐺𝑎𝑝 (𝑘 ) = 1
𝐵
Í𝐵
𝑖=1 log (𝑉 ∗
𝑘𝑏 ) − log(𝑉𝑘 )
11: 𝑣′ = 1
𝐵
Í𝐵
𝑖=1 log(𝑉 ∗
𝑘𝑏 )
12: 𝑠𝑑 (𝑘 ) = ( 1
𝐵
Í𝐵
𝑖=1 (log(𝑉 ∗
𝑘𝑏 ) − 𝑣′ ) 2 )
1
2
13: 𝑠 ′
𝑘 =
√︃
1+𝐵
𝐵 𝑠𝑑 (𝑘 )
14: end for
15: ˆ𝑘 = 𝑚𝑖𝑛 (𝑘 ) 𝑠.𝑡 . 𝐺𝑎𝑝 (𝑘 ) − 𝐺𝑎𝑝 (𝑘 + 1) + 𝑠 ′
𝑘+1 ≥ 0
16: 𝐶𝑖 , 𝜇𝑖 = ˆ𝑘-means(s𝑖 )
17: V𝑖
𝑐𝑢𝑠 = {𝐶𝑖 |max{Avg(𝐶1 ),Avg(𝐶2 ), ...,Avg(𝐶 ˆ𝑘 )}}
18: if | V𝑖
𝑐𝑢𝑠 | > 𝑚𝑠𝑖𝑧𝑒 then
19: V𝑖
𝑐𝑢𝑠 = sort(V𝑖
𝑐𝑢𝑠 )
20: V𝑖
𝑐𝑢𝑠 = V𝑖
𝑐𝑢𝑠 [: 𝑚𝑠𝑖𝑧𝑒 ]
21: end if
Definable-Trigger: It predefines a trigger node size 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 used by
all backdoored graphs. Specifically, this scheme first ranks s𝑖 in a
descending order and selects the nodes V𝑖
𝑑𝑒 𝑓 from 𝐺𝑖 with the top
𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 values as the trigger location.
Customized-Trigger: One drawback of Definable-Trigger is that
all backdoored graphs use the same trigger size, but the graph size
varies in practice. This would cause V𝑖
𝑑𝑒 𝑓 misses important nodes
if 𝐺𝑖 is a large graph but 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 is small, or includes non-important
nodes if 𝐺𝑖 is a small graph but 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 is large. To address it, we fur-
ther develop the Customized-Trigger scheme, which automatically
learns the best local trigger size of each graph during the FedGL
training. The learnt most important nodes for𝐺𝑖 are stored in V𝑖𝑐𝑢𝑠 .
Our main idea is to adopt the Gap statistics [ 61] based on 𝑘-
means clustering1. The algorithm details are shown in Algorithm
1. At a high-level, given the node scores s𝑖, we first use the Gap
statistics to estimate the number of clusters ˆ𝑘. Then we employ
𝑘-means to divide the nodes into ˆ𝑘 clusters based on their scores s𝑖.
Finally, the nodes in the cluster with the largest average score are
treated as the most important nodes V𝑖𝑐𝑢𝑠 , whose positions are put
the local trigger. Note that, to ensure the stealthiness of the attack,
we require the trigger size not exceed a threshold (e.g., 𝑛∗
𝑡𝑟𝑖 ).
3) Trigger shape learning. Given the location of the local trig-
ger (V𝑖
𝑑𝑒 𝑓 or V𝑖𝑐𝑢𝑠 ), we learn the trigger shape through two sub-
modules: edge/node attention, and local trigger differentiation. The
former determines the edges and node features in the trigger, which
is inspired by [77], while the latter promotes divergence of differ-
ent local triggers so that the attack effectiveness can be enhanced
when these local triggers are combined for backdoored testing. We
denote 𝐺𝑖
𝐵 = (V𝑖, E𝑖
𝐵, X𝑖
𝐵) as an initial backdoored graph with an
1K-mean is a widely-adopted clustering algorithm that is efficient and effective. By
integrating with gap statistics, K-means can also efficiently determine the optimal
number of clusters. We admit there are other more advanced/complicated/effective
clustering algorithms. Note that our purpose is not to pick the best clustering algorithm,
but the one that is suitable to achieve our goal, i.e., learning the local trigger size.

--- PAGE 5 ---
Distributed Backdoor Attacks on Federated Graph Learning and Certified Defenses
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
Figure 2: Pipeline of our proposed Opt-GDBA on FedGL (a client 𝑖 perspective).
Algorithm 2 Adaptive Trigger Generator
Input: A clean graph 𝐺𝑖, trigger node size 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 or 𝑛∗
𝑡𝑟𝑖 .
Output: Backdoored graph ˜𝐺𝑖
𝐵.
1: s𝑖 = Node_score(𝐺𝑖) // Node importance score
2: if Definable-Trigger then
3: V𝑖
𝑑𝑒 𝑓 = rank(s𝑖, 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 ) // Trigger location
4: ˜𝐺𝑖
𝐵 = Trigger_shape_learning(𝐺𝑖, V𝑖
𝑑𝑒 𝑓 )
5: else if Customized-Trigger then
6: V𝑖𝑐𝑢𝑠 = 𝑘-means_gap(s𝑖, 𝑚𝑠𝑖𝑧𝑒) // Trigger location
7: ˜𝐺𝑖
𝐵 = Trigger_shape_learning(𝐺𝑖, V𝑖𝑐𝑢𝑠 )
8: end if
empty trigger shape and the corresponding adjacency matrix A𝑖
𝐵.
For brevity, we use V𝑖
𝑑𝑒 𝑓 for illustration.
Edge/node attention. We introduce two attention networks: edge
attention network EdgeAtt(·) that focuses on understanding the
connectivity between nodes V𝑖
𝑑𝑒 𝑓 in the trigger, and node attention
network NodeAtt(·) that aims to improve the flexibility of the trig-
ger by also incorporating node features. We denote the trigger’s
edge attention matrix as E𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 ∈ R| V𝑖
𝑑𝑒 𝑓 | × | V𝑖
𝑑𝑒 𝑓 |, and trigger’s node
feature attention matrix as N𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 ∈ R| V𝑖
𝑑𝑒 𝑓 | ×𝑑. Formally,
E𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 = EdgeAtt(A𝑖
𝐵, V𝑖
def); (4)
N𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 = NodeAtt(X𝑖
𝐵, V𝑖
def). (5)
Local trigger differentiation. To further enable distinct malicious
clients to possess personalized and controllable local triggers, we
also propose to incorporate the client index 𝑖 into the trigger shape
generation. Specifically, we first use an edge embedding function
EdgeEmb(·) to convert the client index 𝑖 into I𝑒 ∈ R| V𝑖
𝑑𝑒 𝑓 | × | V𝑖
𝑑𝑒 𝑓 |
and a node embedding function NodeEmb(·) to convert it into
I𝑛 ∈ R| V𝑖
𝑑𝑒 𝑓 | ×𝑑. We then multiply I𝑒 (and I𝑛) with the attention
matrix E𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 (and N𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 ) to integrate the unique information of the
client index. The equations can be expressed as follows:
I𝑒 = EdgeEmb(𝑖), E𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 = E𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 ⊙ I𝑒,
I𝑛 = NodeEmb(𝑖), N𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 = N𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 ⊙ I𝑛.
(6)
To further discretize the connectivity status between nodes, we
convert the continuous edge attention matrix E𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 to be binary,
i.e., E𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 = 1 (E𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 ≥ 0.5), where 1 (𝑝) is an indicator function that
returns 1 if 𝑝 is true, and 0 otherwise.
The trigger location V𝑖
def as well as trigger shape E𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 , N𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 de-
cides the optimized trigger, which we denote as˜𝜅𝑖 = (V𝑖
def, E𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 , N𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 ).
Algorithm 3 Backdoored FedGL training with Opt-GDBA
Input: Total clients C with clean graphs { G𝑖 }𝑖 ∈C , malicious clients ˜C,
training iterations 𝑖𝑡𝑒𝑟 , initial global model 𝜃1, malicious clients’ initial
generator model {𝜔𝑖
1 }𝑖 ∈ ˜C.
Output: Backdoored global model 𝜃𝑖𝑡𝑒𝑟 .
1: for each iteration 𝑡 in [1,iter] do
2: for each client 𝑖 ∈ C do
3: if 𝑖 ∈ ˜C then:
4: Client 𝑖 divides G𝑖 into G𝑖
𝐶 and to-be-backdoored G𝑖𝑜
5: ˜G𝑖
𝐵 = Generator( G𝑖𝑜 ; 𝜔𝑖
𝑡 ) using Algorithm 2
6: 𝜃 𝑖
𝑡 = arg min
𝜃𝑖
𝐿 ( ˜G𝑖
𝐵 ∪ G 𝑖
𝐶 ; 𝜃𝑡 )
7: 𝜔𝑖
𝑡 = arg min
𝜔𝑖
𝐿 ( ˜G𝑖
𝐵 ; 𝜃 𝑖
𝑡 )
8: else
9: 𝜃 𝑖
𝑡 = arg min
𝜃𝑖
𝐿 ( G𝑖 ; 𝜃𝑡 )
10: end if
11: end for
12: Server randomly selects C𝑡 clients for aggregation
13: 𝜃𝑡 +1 = 1
|C𝑡 |
Í
𝑖 ∈C𝑡 𝜃 𝑖
𝑡
14: end for
The optimized backdoored graph for a graph 𝐺𝑖 is then generated
by ˜𝐺𝑖
𝐵 = 𝑅(𝐺𝑖, ˜𝜅𝑖 ). Algorithm 2 summarizes the adaptive trigger
generator for generating a backdoored graph.
3.2 FedGL Training with Optimized Backdoor
We now show the entire backdoored FedGL training with the opti-
mized backdoored graphs (algorithm details are in Algorithm 3). It
involves alternatively and iteratively training the (backdoored) lo-
cal model, optimizing the adaptive trigger generator, and updating
the shared global backdoored model.
Training the (backdoored) local model: We denote the op-
timized backdoored graphs in each malicious client 𝑖 as ˜G𝑖
𝐵 =
{𝑅(𝐺𝑖
𝑗 , ˜𝜅𝑖
𝑗 ), 𝑦𝐵 }. Then each malicious client 𝑖 trains its local back-
doored model 𝜃𝑖
𝐵 via minimizing the loss on both the optimized
backdoored graphs ˜G𝑖
𝐵 and clean graphs G𝑖
𝐶:
𝜃𝑖
𝐵 = arg min𝜃 𝑖
𝐵
𝐿( ˜G𝑖
𝐵 ∪ G𝑖
𝐶 ; 𝜃 ). (7)
For each benign client 𝑗, it updates the local model via minimizing
the loss on all its clean graphs G 𝑗 as:
𝜃 𝑗 = arg min𝜃 𝑗 𝐿( ˜G 𝑗 ; 𝜃 ). (8)

--- PAGE 6 ---
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
Yuxin Yang1,2, Qiang Li1, Jinyuan Jia3, Yuan Hong4, Binghui Wang2
Optimizing the adaptive trigger generator: We denote the pa-
rameters of the trigger generator per malicious client𝑖 as 𝜔𝑖, which
includes the parameters of all networks in Section 3.1. Each mali-
cious client 𝑖 also optimizes its generator𝜔𝑖 to ensure the generated
backdoored graphs be more effective and diverse. Specifically,
𝜔𝑖 = arg min𝜔𝑖 𝐿( ˜G𝑖
𝐵; 𝜃𝑖
𝐵). (9)
Updating the shared global model: The server averages the
backdoored local models {𝜃𝑖
𝐵 } and benign local models {𝜃 𝑗 } of the
selected clients to update the global model 𝜃.
4 ATTACK RESULTS
4.1 Experimental Setup
Datasets and training/testing sets: We evaluate our attack on
six benchmark real-world graph datasets for graph classification.
Dataset description and statistics and training/testing sets
about the datasets are presented in Table 8 in Appendix C.
Attack baselines: We compare our Opt-GDBA with Rand-GCBA
and Rand-GDBA (details are in Section 2.2). Their main difference
lies in the way to inject the trigger.
• Rand-GCBA [85]: All malicious clients use a shared trigger with
the same shape but random location. To force the trigger yields
the most effective attack, we assume it be a complete subgraph.
• Rand-GDBA [85]: Each malicious client generates its local trig-
ger. Following [95], each client generates the trigger using the
Erdős-Rényi (ER) random graph model [ 18], where the num-
ber of edges 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖 with a trigger node size 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 can be controlled.
These triggers are then attached to random nodes in the to-be-
backdoored graphs. To further enhance this attack, we also main-
tain the diversity of local triggers among malicious clients. To
do so, we store a set of generated local triggers via the ER model,
and assign different triggers to different malicious clients.
For fair comparison, we make sure the total number of edges in
all triggers in Rand-GCBA and Rand-GDBA are same. This can
be realized by forcing 𝜌𝑐 ∗ 𝑒𝑐
𝑡𝑟𝑖 = 𝜌𝑑 ∗ 𝑒𝑑
𝑡𝑟𝑖 , where 𝜌𝑐 and 𝜌𝑑 are
the ratio of malicious clients, and 𝑒𝑐
𝑡𝑟𝑖 and 𝑒𝑑
𝑡𝑟𝑖 are the number of
trigger edge in Rand-GCBA and Rand-GDBA, respectively.
• Our Opt-GDBA: Each to-be-backdoored training graph gen-
erates an individual trigger via the proposed adaptive trigger
generator, where the trigger location and shape are learnt. Note
that the trigger node size 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 is predefined in the Definable-
Trigger scheme (same as Rand-GCBA and Rand-GDBA), but is
automatically learnt in the Customized-Trigger scheme.
During testing, the local triggers are combined into a global trig-
ger. For fair comparison, we let all attacks use a complete subgraph
as the global trigger. In our Opt-GDBA, for each testing graph, we
learn the important nodes that determine the trigger location, and
then generate the complete graph based on them. In contrast, the
trigger location of Rand-GCBA and Rand-GDBA in testing graphs
is random. Note that [85] uses a different way to combine local trig-
gers and injects a much larger global trigger in Rand-GDBA. The
discussion and results are shown in Table 10 in Appendix D.1 .
Parameter setting: During FedGL training, we use a total of𝐶 = 40
clients (𝐶 = 20 on MUTAG due to less data) and evenly distribute
the training graphs in each dataset to the clients. The total number
of iterations is 200 in all datasets, except the larger RDT-M5K that
is 400. In each iteration, the server randomly selects50% of the total
clients for training. The clients use the de facto Graph Isomorphism
Network (GIN) [87] as the graph classifier. We use its open-source
code (https://github.com/weihua916/powerful-gnns) in our exper-
iments. By default, 50% of malicious clients’ training graphs are
randomly sampled to inject the backdoor trigger, and the target
label is 1. All testing graphs are chosen for backdoored testing.
There are several hyperparameters that can affect all attacks’ per-
formance on FedGL: fraction of malicious clients𝜌 and trigger node
size 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 or a threshold size 𝑛∗
𝑡𝑟𝑖 in Customized-Trigger scheme. We
set 𝜌 = 20% and 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 = 4 by default, and set 𝑛∗
𝑡𝑟𝑖 = 5 in all exper-
iments. We will also study the impact of these hyperparameters.
Our Opt-GDBA contains many modules and we will also study the
importance of individual module.
Evaluation metrics: We adopt four metrics for evaluation: the
main task accuracy (MA) and backdoor accuracy (BA) on testing
graphs; the average trigger node size (also use 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 ) and edge size
(also use 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖 ) of all backdoored training graphs. A more effective at-
tack would achieve a higher MA and higher BA, and a more stealthy
attack would have a lower 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 and 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖 given a close MA/BA.
4.2 Experimental Results
4.2.1 Main results of the compared attacks. Table 1 shows the com-
parison results of the attacks in the default setting ( more com-
prehensive comparison and more results are shown in Table
9-Table 14 in Appendix D.1). We have the below key observations:
(1) Main task performance is marginally sacrificed under all
attacks: All attacks achieve a close MA, compared to the MA
without attack (i.e., the differences between them in all cases
are ≤ 3%). This verifies these attacks only slightly affect the
performance of the main task.
(2) Rand-GDBA outperforms Rand-GCBA on attacking FedGL:
Similar to the conclusion of backdoor attacks on image data [80],
distributed backdoors for graph data are also superior to cen-
tralized backdoors on attacking FedGL. Specifically, the BA of
Rand-GDBA is higher than that of Rand-GCBA, with a gain
from 4% to 18%. This implies the diverse local triggers indeed
can promote the backdoor attack. This observation hence im-
plies the importance of using distributed backdoors.
(3) Our Opt-GDBA outperforms Rand-GDBA in terms of both
attack effectiveness and stealthiness: Both our Opt-GDBA
with Definable-Trigger and Customized-Trigger schemes yield
impressive attack results, with BA exceeding 85% and 90% in
almost all cases, respectively. Under a same trigger node size
𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 (Definable-Trigger) or a smaller learnt 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 (Customized-
Trigger), the BA of Opt-GDBA consistently and significantly
surpasses that of Rand-GDBA. Particularly, the gain is from30%
to 46%. In addition, the average number of injected edges of Opt-
GDBA is less than that of Rand-GDBA, showing Opt-GDBA
is a more stealthy attack than Rand-GDBA. These findings
underscore that the graph-dependent triggers learnt by our
trigger generator are not only better memorized during the
FedGL training, but also uncover important locations in the
clean graphs. Figure 3 shows example triggers generated by

--- PAGE 7 ---
Distributed Backdoor Attacks on Federated Graph Learning and Certified Defenses
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
Table 1: Results of all the compared attacks in the default setting. The gain is between Opt-GDBA and Rand-GDBA.
Datasets Customized-Trigger (𝑛∗
𝑡𝑟𝑖 = 5) Opt-GDBA Rand-GDBA Rand-GCBA
(MA without attack) (MA / BA) 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 (MA / BA) 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖 (MA / BA) 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖 (MA / BA) 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖
BITCOIN (MA=0.73) 0.72 / 0.99 (↑0.36) 4.29 4.20 4 0.72 / 0.99 (↑0.36) 3.08 0.71 / 0.63 4 0.72 / 0.57 6
MUTAG (MA=0.74) 0.72 / 0.95 (↑0.43) 3.51 2.31 4 0.71 / 0.85 (↑0.33) 3.41 0.71 / 0.52 4 0.73 / 0.48 6
PROTEINS (MA=0.73) 0.72 / 0.90 (↑0.39) 3.75 2.56 4 0.72 / 0.90 (↑0.39) 2.07 0.70 / 0.51 4 0.71 / 0.33 6
DD (MA=0.73) 0.72 / 0.86 (↑0.46) 3.19 1.57 4 0.72 / 0.78 (↑0.38) 2.97 0.72 / 0.40 4 0.72 / 0.33 6
COLLAB (MA=0.75) 0.73 / 0.86 (↑0.32) 4.68 4.51 4 0.73 / 0.84 (↑0.30) 3.34 0.73 / 0.54 4 0.71 / 0.37 6
RDT-M5K (MA=0.53) 0.52 / 0.90 (↑0.33) 4.51 3.59 4 0.52 / 0.89 (↑0.32) 3.27 0.52 / 0.57 4 0.52 / 0.40 6
Figure 3: Examples of original clean graphs on the six datasets and their corresponding backdoored ones by our Opt-GDBA.
Figure 4: MA/BA vs. 𝜌 on all compared attacks in all datasets.
Figure 5: MA/BA vs. 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 (𝑛∗
𝑡𝑟𝑖 = 5) on all compared attacks in all datasets.
Table 2: Comparing the two trigger location learning schemes in our Opt-GDBA w.r.t. the average trigger edge size 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖 .
Datasets BITCOIN MUTAG PROTEINS DD COLLAB RDT-M5K
𝜌 vs. 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖 10% 20% 30% 10% 20% 30% 10% 20% 30% 10% 20% 30% 10% 20% 30% 10% 20% 30%
Definable-Trigger 4.95 5.09 5.35 5.83 5.88 5.63 3.56 3.36 3.44 5.42 5.04 5.22 5.85 5.72 5.99 5.39 5.45 5.59
Customized-Trigger 3.88 4.20 4.35 3.52 2.31 2.32 2.68 2.56 2.54 1.64 1.57 1.79 4.50 4.51 4.72 3.42 3.59 3.86
Opt-GDBA on the six datasets. We can see most of the triggers
are attached to the important/central nodes in the raw graphs.
4.2.2 Impact of hyperparameters on our Opt-GDBA. In this set of
experiments, we will study in-depth the impact of the important
hyperparameters on our Opt-GDBA.

--- PAGE 8 ---
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
Yuxin Yang1,2, Qiang Li1, Jinyuan Jia3, Yuan Hong4, Binghui Wang2
Figure 6: Comparing the backdoor performance with global trigger vs. local triggers generated by malicious clients.
Table 3: Structure similarity between the generated backdoored graphs by our Opt-GDBA and the clean graphs.
Datasets BITCOIN MUTAG PROTEINS DD COLLAB RDT-M5K
𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 (𝑛∗
𝑡𝑟𝑖 ) 3 4 5 5∗ 3 4 5 5∗ 3 4 5 5∗ 3 4 5 5∗ 3 4 5 5∗ 3 4 5 5∗
NetSim (↑) 0.73 0.55 0.52 0.54 0.99 0.90 0.82 0.87 0.93 0.88 0.80 0.86 1.00 0.99 0.99 0.99 1.00 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.98 0.97 0.98
DeltaCon (↑) 0.80 0.65 0.63 0.64 0.96 0.93 0.89 0.92 0.95 0.94 0.89 0.91 1.00 0.99 0.99 1.00 1.00 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.98 0.98
Impact of the fraction 𝜌 of malicious clients: Figure 4 shows the
MA/BA results vs. 𝜌 = 10%, 20%, 30%. We can see MA is stable w.r.t.
different 𝜌, and BA (slightly) increases with a larger𝜌. For instance,
on MUTAG, when 𝜌 is from 10% to 30%, the BA of Rand-GCBA,
Rand-GDBA, and our Opt-GDBA can be increased from 41% to 56%,
from 43% to 67% and from 84% to 97% with the Definable-Trigger,
respectively. This shows MA is marginally affected, but the attack
becomes stronger with more malicious clients.
Impact of the trigger size 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 : Figure 5 shows the MA/BA results
vs. 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 (=3,4,5). We can see a larger trigger size corresponds to
a larger BA, which implies a stronger attack. This is because the
trigger can be injected to a larger region of the clean graph. Still,
the MA is the very stable in terms of different trigger sizes.
Impact of the trigger location learning scheme:Our Opt-GDBA
uses two schemes to decide the trigger location: Customized-Trigger
automatically learns it, while Definable-Trigger predefines it. Ta-
ble 2 shows the comparison results. We can see the trigger out-
putted by Customized-Trigger has an average number of edges < 5
in all cases. In contrast, Definable-Trigger yields ⪆ 5 edges in most
cases. Note that the MA and BA of the two schemes are close. This
hence reflects the Customized-Trigger scheme can further locate
the “more important” region in a graph to attach the trigger.
Global trigger vs. local triggers: From Table 1, we know the MA
performance is marginally affected by the backdoor attacks with
respect to different trigger sizes. Recall that, during testing, we use
the combined local triggers to form a global trigger (a complete sub-
graph), which is injected into all testing graphs. In this experiment,
we also explore the BA performance of our Opt-GDBA where each
client uses the local triggers generated by its own trigger generator.
Specifically, we use 𝜌 = 20% and the total number of malicious
Table 4: Finetuning the backdoored FedGL model by extend-
ing the training on clean graphs.
Datasets 𝜌 10% 20% 30%
𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 3 4 5 3 4 5 3 4 5
BITCOIN BA 0.97 0.99 0.98 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 1.00 0.95
BA-FT 0.95 0.97 0.96 0.94 0.95 0.96 0.96 0.95 0.73
MUTAG BA 0.83 0.84 0.82 0.87 0.85 0.86 0.95 0.97 0.94
BA-FT 0.82 0.82 0.81 0.85 0.84 0.84 0.92 0.92 0.65
PROTEINS BA 0.82 0.91 0.88 0.87 0.92 0.90 0.94 0.94 0.96
BA-FT 0.77 0.90 0.82 0.87 0.89 0.76 0.94 0.92 0.65
DD BA 0.78 0.77 0.80 0.76 0.78 0.87 0.83 0.80 0.92
BA-FT 0.70 0.74 0.76 0.72 0.76 0.84 0.75 0.73 0.61
COLLAB BA 0.80 0.80 0.82 0.81 0.84 0.85 0.85 0.90 0.91
BA-FT 0.79 0.77 0.80 0.79 0.81 0.80 0.82 0.85 0.77
RDT-M5K BA 0.88 0.90 0.85 0.87 0.89 0.90 0.90 0.89 0.92
BA-FT 0.87 0.85 0.72 0.85 0.94 0.75 0.88 0.86 0.60
clients is 20% ∗ 50% ∗ 40 = 4. Figure 6 compares the BA produced
by the global trigger vs. local triggers per malicious client with
Definable-Trigger Opt-GDBA with 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 = 4. For instance, “Local
triggers 1” means the local triggers are generated via malicious
client 1’s trigger generator on the corresponding testing graphs.
We observe that though the backdoored FedGL training does
not involve the global trigger, the BA achieved by the global trigger
is even larger than that by the local triggers. One possible reason
could be that the federated training might memorize the combined
effect of local triggers. This phenomenon further reinforces the
FedGL framework is more vulnerable to distributed backdoors.
4.2.3 Persistence and stealthiness of the triggers. In this experiment,
we explore the persistence and stealthiness of the backdoor triggers
generated by our Opt-GDBA.

--- PAGE 9 ---
Distributed Backdoor Attacks on Federated Graph Learning and Certified Defenses
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
Table 5: Impact of different modules in our adaptive trig-
ger generator on the (MA/BA) performance on Bitcoin. T-L:
Trigger-Location; T-S: Trigger-Shape; E-V: Edge-View; Cus-T:
Customized-Trigger; Def-T: Definable-Trigger.
Models T-L T-S T-L w/o E-V Cus-T Def-T
(a) ✓ ✓ 0.72 / 0.99 0.72 / 0.99
(b) ✓ ✓ 0.72 / 0.83 0.72 / 0.84
(c) ✓ - 0.71 / 0.81
(d) ✓ 0.72 / 0.72 0.72 / 0.77
(e) - 0.71 / 0.63
(Persistence) Finetuning the backdoored FedGL model with
clean graphs cannot remove the backdoor effect: A straight-
forward strategy to mitigate the backdoor effect is to finetune the
FedGL model only with clean graphs. To simulate this, we extend
the FedGL training with an extra 200 iterations (e.g., from 200 to
400) which only involves training with clean graphs. Table 4 shows
the results. We can see the BA with finetuning is close to that with-
out finetuing in all 𝜌 and when the trigger node size is not large
(i.e., 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 = 3, 4). This shows the backdoor effect is persistent.
(Stealthiness) Similarity between the backdoored graphs and
clean graphs is large: We further quantitatively compare the struc-
ture similarity between the generated backdoored graphs and the
clean graphs, where we use the metrics NetSim and DeltaCon pro-
posed in [74]. Table 3 shows the similarity results over all training
graphs. We observe the backdoored graphs and their clean counter-
parts are structurally close (except BITCOIN where one possible
reason could be the BITCOIN graph is very sparse).
The above results imply that empirical defenses based on fine-
tuning and structure similarity test are hard to detect or remove
the backdoor trigger. Also, empirical defenses are always broken by
advanced/adaptive attacks [95]. Hence, it is necessary to develop
certified defenses for backdoored FedGL. More details see Section 5.
4.2.4 Ablation study. In this experiment, we examine the contribu-
tion of each module in our trigger generator. The modules include
Trigger-Location (based on the Edge-View module), Trigger-Shape,
Customized-Trigger, and Definable-Trigger. For simplicity, we test
on BITCOIN, and the other datasets show similar observations. The
results are summarized in Table 5 with 𝜌 = 20%, and 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 = 4 in
Definable-Trigger and 𝑛∗
𝑡𝑟𝑖 = 5 in Customized-Trigger.
(a) The whole generator as a reference. (b) We exclude only
the Edge-View sub-module in Trigger-Location, indicating that
trigger locations in graphs are computed solely based on the rank
of the node features. (c) We remove Trigger-Location and decide
the trigger location in each graph randomly. Compared with(a), the
significant BA reductions of 16% for Customized-Trigger, and 15%
and 18% for Definable-Trigger in (b) and (c) demonstrate that the
Trigger-Location module excels at selecting important nodes in the
graphs. (d) We remove Trigger-Shape and use the ER model [18]
to decide the trigger shape. The reductions of 27% and 22% in
BA underscore the superior effectiveness of our Trigger-Shape
module in learning trigger shapes. (e) We remove both the Trigger-
Shape and Trigger-Location modules, resorting to a random method
for trigger location selection and an ER model for trigger shape
determination. The substantial 36% reduction in BA proves the
strong competition of our method for backdoor attacks on FedGL.
Figure 7: Overview of our proposed certified defense.
5 CERTIFIED DEFENSE FOR FEDGL
In this section, we design certified defenses for (backdoored) FedGL.
Suppose we have learnt a backdoored FedGL for graph classification.
We aim to build a certifiably robust defense mechanism such that
the graph classifier: 1) provably predicts the correct label for clean
testing graphs injected with arbitrary trigger with a bounded size;
and 2) provably predicts a non-target label for backdoored testing
graphs. This has the implication that benign clients’ performance
are provably kept, while the malicious clients’ backdoored effect
are provably removed during testing.
Our defense includes three key steps: 1) dividing a (clean or
backdoored) testing graph into multiple subgraphs; 2) building a
majority vote-based ensemble graph classifier on the subgraphs;
and 3) deriving the robustness guarantees of the ensemble graph
classifier against arbitrary trigger. Figure 7 overviews our defense.
5.1 Graph Division into Subgraphs
Recall that a backdoor attack can arbitrarily perturb the edges E
and node features X in a graph 𝐺 = (V, E, X) as the trigger can be
put in any location with any shape. To defend against this attack,
our main idea is to design a deterministic function ℎ2 to divide 𝐺
into different subgraphs, such that each edge and node (feature) in
𝐺 is deterministically mapped into only one subgraph.
Hash function as the mapping: We use the cryptographic hash
function (e.g., MD5) as our mapping function. It takes input as a
bit string and outputs an integer (e.g., 128-bit long with the integer
range [0, 2128 − 1]). Here, we propose to use node indexes and
stringify them as the input to the hash function. For instance, for a
node 𝑣, we denote its string asstr(𝑣). Given thestr(𝑣) of every node
𝑣 ∈ V , we propose mapping the nodes and edges using the hash
function ℎ and dividing a graph 𝐺 into multiple (e.g., 𝑇 ) subgraphs.
Node feature and edge division: First, we divide node features
into 𝑇 groups using the hash function ℎ. Specifically, we compute
the hash value  ℎ[str(𝑢)] mod𝑇 + 1 for every node 𝑢 ∈ V , where
mod is the modulo function. We use V𝑡 to denote the set of nodes
whose group index is 𝑡, i.e., V𝑡 = {𝑢 ∈ V | ℎ[str(𝑢)] = 𝑡 }, 𝑡 =
1, 2, · · ·𝑇 . Correspondingly, we use X𝑡 ∈ R| V | ×𝑑 to denote the
node features in the 𝑡th group. With such grouping, we observe
that nodes not in the 𝑡th group do not have features in X𝑡 . To
mitigate this, we simply set features of these nodes to be zeros. I.e.,
X𝑡𝑣 = X𝑣, if 𝑣 ∈ V 𝑡 ; and X𝑡𝑣 = 0, otherwise.
2We emphasize that the function should be independent of the graph structure and
node features. Otherwise, an attacker may possibly “reverse engineer” the function to
find the relation between the output and input.

--- PAGE 10 ---
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
Yuxin Yang1,2, Qiang Li1, Jinyuan Jia3, Yuan Hong4, Binghui Wang2
Next, we divide edges into 𝑇 groups. Specifically, we compute
ℎ[str(𝑢) + str(𝑣)] mod𝑇 + 1 for every edge (𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ E , 𝑢 ≤ 𝑣, where
“+” means the string concatenation. We then letℎ[str(𝑣) + str(𝑢)] =
ℎ[str(𝑢) + str(𝑣)]. This is to ensure an undirected edge has a same
hash value. We useE𝑡 to denote the set of edges whose group index
is 𝑡, i.e., E𝑡 = {(𝑢, 𝑣) ∈ E | ℎ[str(𝑢) + str(𝑣)] = 𝑡 }.
Then, we construct 𝑇 subgraphs, i.e., 𝐺𝑡 = (V, E𝑡 , X𝑡 ) with
𝑡 = 1, 2, · · ·, 𝑇, for a graph 𝐺. Notice the node features and edges
are non-overlapped between different subgraphs. That is,X𝑖 ∩ X𝑗 =
∅, E𝑖 ∩ E 𝑗 = ∅, ∀𝑖, 𝑗 ∈ { 1, 2, · · ·, 𝑇}, 𝑖 ≠ 𝑗. This is a requirement
to enable deriving our robustness guarantee. Note also that the
subgraph does not need to be connected, as a graph classifier can
still predict a label for a graph with disconnected components.
5.2 Majority Vote-based Ensemble Classifier
Let the backdoored graph classifier be 𝑓𝐵. Given a clean testing
graph 𝐺 (with true label 𝑦), we construct 𝑇 subgraphs {𝐺𝑡 } using
our graph division strategy and introduce a majority vote-based
ensemble graph classifier 𝑔𝐵 to classify these 𝑇 subgraphs. Specif-
ically, we denote by 𝑇𝑙 the number of subgraphs classified as the
label 𝑙 by 𝑓𝐵, i.e., 𝑇𝑙 = Í𝑇
𝑡 =11 (𝑓𝐵 (𝐺𝑡 ) = 𝑙). Then, we define 𝑔𝐵 as:
𝑔𝐵 (𝐺) = arg max𝑙 ∈ Y 𝑇𝑙 , (10)
which returns a smaller index when ties exist. Let 𝑦 = 𝑔𝐵 (𝐺) by as-
suming the ensemble classifier accurately predicts the clean graph.
Similarly, for a backdoored testing graph 𝐺𝐵 (with the target
label 𝑦𝐵), we construct 𝑇 subgraphs {𝐺𝑡
𝐵 } using the graph division
strategy and denote by 𝑇𝑙𝐵 the number of subgraphs classified as
the label 𝑙𝐵 by 𝑓𝐵, i.e., 𝑇𝑙𝐵 = Í𝑇
𝑡 =11 (𝑓𝐵 (𝐺𝑡
𝐵) = 𝑙𝐵). Then, we have:
𝑔𝐵 (𝐺𝐵) = arg max𝑙𝐵 ∈ Y 𝑇𝑙𝐵 . (11)
Likewise, we let 𝑦𝐵 = 𝑔𝐵 (𝐺𝐵) by assuming the backdoored testing
graph successfully triggers the backdoor.
5.3 Certified Robustness Guarantees
With our graph division strategy and ensemble classifier, we can
derive the robustness guarantee for clean graphs against backdoor
trigger and backdoored graphs.Proofs are deferred to Appendix B.
5.3.1 Certified robustness w.r.t. clean graph. Assume we have a
backdoored graph ˜𝐺 generated from the clean graph 𝐺. We use
˜𝐺 1, ˜𝐺 2, · · ·, ˜𝐺𝑇 to denote the 𝑇 subgraphs from ˜𝐺 via the graph
division strategy. Moreover, we denote by ˜𝑇𝑙 = Í𝑇
𝑡 =1 1 (𝑓𝐵 ( ˜𝐺𝑡 ) =
𝑙), ∀𝑙 ∈ Y , and 𝑔𝐵 ( ˜𝐺) = arg max𝑙 ∈ Y ˜𝑇𝑙 . We aim to ensure 𝑔𝐵 (𝐺) =
𝑔𝐵 ( ˜𝐺) when the perturbation size induced by the backdoor trigger
is bounded by a threshold (call certified perturbation size ), where
the perturbation size is defined as the sum of the perturbed number
of nodes (whose features can be arbitrarily modified) and edges
w.r.t.𝐺. Formally, we state the theorem below:
Theorem 1 (Certified perturbation size w.r.t. clean graph).
Given a backdoored graph classifier 𝑓𝐵 and our ensemble graph clas-
sifier 𝑔𝐵. Given a clean testing graph 𝐺 with a label 𝑦 and its 𝑇
subgraphs {𝐺𝑡 }𝑇
𝑡 =1 produced by our graph division strategy. Suppose
𝑇𝑦 and 𝑇𝑧 are the largest and second largest frequency outputted by
𝑓𝐵 on predicting {𝐺𝑡 }𝑇
𝑡 =1. Let 𝑚 be the perturbation size induced by
an arbitrary backdoor trigger and the respective backdoored graph is
˜𝐺. Then 𝑔𝐵 (𝐺) = 𝑔𝐵 ( ˜𝐺) = 𝑦, when 𝑚 satisfies:
𝑚 ≤ 𝑚∗ = ⌊𝑇𝑦 − 𝑇𝑧 + 1 (𝑦 < 𝑧) − 1
2 ⌋. (12)
We have below remarks of the theoretical result from Theorem 1:
• It can be applied for any backdoored FedGL model.
• It holds for any backdoored attack with a trigger that arbitrarily
perturbs 𝑚∗ edges and nodes.
• It does not restrict the trigger to be connected.
• The robustness guarantee is true with a probability 100%.
Next, we further show our certified robustness guarantee is tight.
Theorem 2 (Tightness of 𝑚∗). For any 𝑚 satisfying 𝑚 > 𝑚∗,
there exists a base classifier 𝑓 ′
𝐵 ≠ 𝑓𝐵 that will make 𝑔𝐵 misclassify ˜𝐺.
That being said, it is impossible to derive a larger certified perturbation
size than 𝑚∗ in Theorem 1, without using extra information on 𝑓𝐵.
5.3.2 Certified robustness w.r.t. backdoored graphs. For a back-
doored graph 𝐺𝐵, we consider its robustness against our defense
strategy. We have the below theorem.
Theorem 3 (Certified (non-)backdoored graph). Let 𝑓𝐵 and
𝑔𝐵 be defined as Theorem 1. Given a backdoored testing graph𝐺𝐵 with
a target label 𝑦𝐵 and its 𝑇 subgraphs {𝐺𝑡
𝐵 }𝑇
𝑡 =1 produced by our graph
division. Let 𝑇𝑦𝐵 and 𝑇𝑧𝐵 be the largest and second largest frequency
outputted by 𝑓𝐵 on predicting {𝐺𝑡
𝐵 }𝑇
𝑡 =1. Then if 𝑇𝑦𝐵 > 𝑇𝑧𝐵 − 1 (𝑦𝐵 <
𝑧𝐵), 𝐺𝐵 is a certified backdoored graph for our defense, otherwise it
is a certified non-backdoored graph.
A certified backdoored graph means it provably evades our de-
fense, while a certified non-backdoored graph means our defense
provably predicts it as a non-target label.
6 CERTIFIED DEFENSE RESULTS
6.1 Experimental Setup
Parameter setup: We first train the backdoored FedGL model un-
der our Opt-DGBA (with a specified 𝜌, 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 in Definable-Trigger
or 𝑛∗
𝑡𝑟𝑖 in Customized-Trigger). The trained backdoored graph clas-
sifier 𝑓𝐵 is then for both normal testing (i.e., on cleaning testing
graphs) and backdoor testing (i.e., on the backdoored testing graphs
generated by our Opt-GBA). Here, we only select successfully back-
doored testing graphs for evaluation. Unless otherwise specified,
we use 𝜌 = 20%, 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 = 4, or 𝑛∗
𝑡𝑟𝑖 = 5.
To apply our defense, for each (clean/backdoored) testing graph,
we use our graph division strategy to divide it into 𝑇 subgraphs
and majority vote-based ensemble classifier 𝑔𝐵 to predict these
subgraphs. The key hyperparameter in our defense is the number
of subgraphs 𝑇 . By default we set 𝑇 = 30. We also test its impact
on the defense performance.
Evaluation metrics: We use the certified accuracy [5, 33, 56, 65]
on the testing graphs for evaluation.
• Certified MA at perturbation size 𝑚: the fraction of the clean
testing graphs that are provably classified as the true label against
an arbitrary trigger whose size is 𝑚.
• Certified BA: the fraction of the backdoored testing graphs that
are provably classified as the target label against our defense.

--- PAGE 11 ---
Distributed Backdoor Attacks on Federated Graph Learning and Certified Defenses
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
Figure 8: Certified MA vs. 𝑇 . 100 testing graphs are randomly sampled (and all testing graphs in MUTAG) for evaluation. Normal
MA (under no attack and defense) is also reported for reference.
Figure 9: Certified MA vs. 𝑇 , where we finetune the backdoored FedGL model with augmented subgraphs that are generated
from the benign clients’ training graphs.
6.2 Experimental Results
6.2.1 Results on certified MA. In this experiment we show the
results on certified MA against the backdoored FedGL model trained
under our Opt-GDBA. More results are shown in Appendix D.2.
Certified MA vs. 𝑇 : Figure 8 shows the certified MA at perturba-
tion size 𝑚 vs. different 𝑇 , where we test on all 63 testing graphs
in MUTAG and randomly sampled 100 testing graphs in the other
datasets. For reference, we also report the normal MA without our
defense. In general, we observe our defense is provably more ro-
bust (i.e., larger certified MA with larger certified perturbation size)
when 𝑇 is larger. For instance, on BITCOIN, when 𝑇 = 30, 50, certi-
fied MA are 44% and 58% with 𝑚 = 13, and the maximum certified
perturbation size are 𝑚∗ = 13 and 23, respectively. The reason is
our majority vote-based ensemble classifier could tolerate more
perturbed subgraphs when 𝑇 increases. As an arbitrary node/edge
perturbation induced by the trigger can affect at most one clean
subgraph’s prediction, a larger𝑇 implies being robust to a larger 𝑚.
Though effective, we still see a large gap between certified MA
and normal MA on datasets such as MUATG and PROTEINS. This
is due to the number of accurately predicted subgraphs (i.e, 𝑇𝑦 in
Equation (12)) after graph division is not large enough on these
datasets. We note that the backdoored FedGL training only uses the
whole training graph. To enhance the certified MA, we propose to
finetune the backdoored FedGL model with extra subgraphs created
from benign clients’ training graphs. Specifically, in each benign
client, we use 𝑇 = {10, 20, ..., 50} to generate a set of subgraphs
for each training graph and pick one subgraph from each 𝑇 . These
subgraphs have the same label as the raw graph. Figure 9 shows the
results. We observe the finetuned model with clean subgraphs yield
a significantly higher certified MA on the relatively sparser/smaller

--- PAGE 12 ---
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
Yuxin Yang1,2, Qiang Li1, Jinyuan Jia3, Yuan Hong4, Binghui Wang2
Figure 10: Certified MA vs. ratio 𝜌 of malicious clients (𝑇 = 30, 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 = 4)
Figure 11: Certified MA vs. trigger node size 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 (𝑇 = 30, 𝜌 = 20%).
datasets (e.g., BITCOIN, MUTAG, and PROTEINS). This implies the
finetuned model learns a correct mapping between the subgraphs
and the true label, and hence improves the accuracy of subgraphs
created from the testing graphs. In contrast, we see a drop of cer-
tified MA on relatively denser/larger datasets (e.g., DD, COLLAB,
and RDT-M5K). This is possibly because the finetuned model is
hard to associate both the large dense graphs and their generated
much smaller and sparser subgraphs with the true label.
The above results suggest that, in practice, to enhance the cer-
tified MA of a backdoored FedGL model, we could augment the
training graphs with their subgraphs on small/sparse datasets, but
may not on large/denser datasets.
Certified MA vs. 𝜌: In this experiment, we assess the defense
performance on Opt-GDBA attacked FedGL models with varying 𝜌
of malicious clients. Figure 10 shows the results with 𝑇 = 30 and
𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 = 4. We observe the certified MA and certified perturbation size
are similar with different 𝜌’s (except a slight drop when𝜌 = 30%).
This is primarily because the Opt-GDBA’s MA and BA are relatively
stable across different 𝜌, as shown in Table 1. This ensures the
number of correctly predicted subgraphs via our ensemble classifier
is also close in different𝜌’s, and so do the certified MA and certified
perturbation size.
Certified MA vs.𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 : This experiment explores the defense perfor-
mance with varying trigger node sizes used by Opt-GDBA. Figure 11
shows the results. Similarly, our defense achieves similar certified
MA in general, with large 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 slightly reduces the certified MA.
6.2.2 Results on certified BA. In this experiment, we evaluate the
robustness of the backdoored testing graphs generated by our Opt-
GDBA under our defense. Table 6 shows the results of certified
BA. We observe the certified BA is 0 in all 𝑇 , 𝜌, and 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 . Recall
our graph division strategy ensures the divided subgraphs have
non-overlapping edges and node features. The above results can
be attributed to two aspects: the trigger in the backdoored testing
graph is separated into: 1) a few subgraphs that are still classified

--- PAGE 13 ---
Distributed Backdoor Attacks on Federated Graph Learning and Certified Defenses
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
Table 6: Certified BA and MA of backdoored graphs under
our defense (in all 𝑇 , 𝜌, and 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 ).
Datasets BITCOIN MUTAG PROTEINS DD COLLAB RDT
Certified BA 0 0 0 0 0 0
MA 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.96 0.92
as the target label, but the other majority subgraphs are mostly
classified as a non-target label (actually the true label in most cases);
or 2) a large number of the subgraphs that makes it difficult to form
any effective trigger in the subgraphs. In either case, the number
of successful backdoored subgraphs is a minority. Hence, with the
majority voting, all the backdoored testing graphs are misclassified
as a non-target label . The results imply the backdoored testing
graphs generated by our Opt-GDBA are completely broken by our
graph division + ensemble classifier based defense.
We also calculate MA on the generated backdoored graphs (which
have correct predictions without backdoor) under our defense. We
obtain ≥ 92% MA in all datasets, where 4 datasets are 100%. This
means our defense does not/marginally affect clean labels, so the
FedGL’s utility is still maintained. This is because the proposed
defense is mainly designed to affect the backdoored effect in the
backdoored subgraphs, but not affect the utility of clean subgraphs.
7 RELATED WORK
Backdoor attacks on centralized learning for non-graph data
and defenses: Extensive works have shown centralized machine
learning models for non-graph data, such as image [10, 11, 22, 37, 42,
54, 60, 63, 73, 90], text [9, 15, 46, 49, 88], audio [17, 23, 51, 57], and
video [84, 97], are vulnerable to backdoor attacks. A backdoored
model produces attacker-desired behaviors when the same trigger is
injected into testing data. Gu et al. [22] proposed the first backdoor
attack, called BadNet, on image classifiers. The attack injects a
trigger (e.g., a sticker with yellow square) into “STOP” sign from
the U.S. stop signs database and changes their labels to the “SPEED”
sign. The trained backdoored image classifier then predicts a “STOP”
sign with the same sticker trigger to be the “SPEED” sign.
Many empirical defenses [10, 16, 24, 40–42, 67, 69] have been pro-
posed to mitigate backdoor attacks. For instance, Wang et al. [67]
proposed Neural Cleanse to detect and reverse engineer the trigger.
However, all these defenses are broken by adaptive attacks [ 72].
These two works [64, 72] proposed provable defenses against back-
door attacks in the image domain. However, they are shown to have
insufficient effectiveness against backdoor attacks. In addition, they
cannot be applied to inputs with different sizes.
Backdoor attacks on federated learning for non-graph data
and defenses: Backdoor attacks on FL are categorized as central-
ized backdoor attack (CBA) [4, 21, 68, 96], where all malicious clients
use a shared trigger, and distributed backdoor attack (DBA) [80],
where each malicious client uses its own defined trigger. For in-
stance, Bagdasaryan et al. [ 2] designed the first CBA via model
replacement. Inspired by the distributed learning property of FL,
Xie et al. [80] designed the first DBA which is shown to be more
persistent and stealthy than CBAs on FL.
Many empirical defenses [ 7, 44, 45, 50, 58, 94] have been pro-
posed, and can be performed in the FL stage of pre-aggregation [44,
50], in-aggregation [ 45, 58, 94], and post-aggregation [ 7]. How-
ever, they can only defend against known attack techniques, and
an adversary aware of the existence of these defenses can break
them [68]. Existing certified defenses [6, 8, 79, 81] for FL can only
tolerate a very small number of malicious clients and/or incur a
large computation/communication cost for clients.
Backdoor attacks on centralized graph learning and defenses:
Unlike non-graph data that can be represented via Cartesian coor-
dinates and have fixed input size, graphs cannot do so and different
graphs often have varying sizes, making the trigger hard to be
defined. To address this, two recent works [77, 95] propose to use
subgraph as a trigger. Zhang et al. [95] use a random subgraph as
the trigger shape, which is generated by random graph genera-
tion models (such as the Erdős-Rényi [18], Small World [71], and
Preferential Attachment [3]), and pick random nodes as the trigger
location. Instead of using a random trigger shape, Xi et al. [77] de-
signed a trigger generator to learn to generate the trigger shape for
each graph using its edge and node feature information. However,
the trigger randomly chooses nodes as the trigger location.
Zhang et al. [95] proposed a certified defense for a backdoored
graph classifier by extending randomized ablation [36] for image
classifiers. Specifically, they built a randomized subgraph sampling
based defense mechanism to ensure the backdoored graph classifier
provably predicts the same label for a testing graph if the injected
trigger has a size less than a threshold. However, their defense is
limited to edge perturbation and their robustness guarantee could
be incorrect with a certain probability.
Backdoor attacks on federated graph learning: Xu et al. [85]
is the only work studying backdoor attacks on FedFL. It is inspired
by [80, 95] with random subgraph as a trigger. We showed their
backdoor performance is not good enough with a smaller trigger.
Majority-voting based ensemble for certified defenses: The
key insight of this type of defense is to ensure only a bounded
number of corrupted votes/predictions (each prediction is treated
as a vote) are changed with a bounded adversarial perturbation.
This idea has been used in certified defenses against adversarial
patch attacks [34, 78], data poisoning attacks [30, 31, 35], and oth-
ers [28, 47, 93]. The key difference among these methods is that they
create problem-dependent voters for the majority vote. A closely
relevant work to ours is [ 89], but they have two key differences.
First, the studied problem is different. [ 89] proposes a majority-
voting strategy for GL to defend against evasion attacks, while ours
for FedGL to defend against distributed backdoor attacks. Second,
the graph division strategy is different. [89] divides a graph into
overlapped subgraphs, which facilitates deriving the robustness
guarantee against graph perturbation or node (feature) perturba-
tion, but not both. Instead, our method can concurrently defend
against both graph and node (feature) perturbations.
8 CONCLUSION
We study the robustness of FedGL from both the attacker’s and
defender’s perspective. We first design an effective, stealthy, and
persistent DBA on FedGL. Instead of using a random (centralized or
distributed) trigger that is injected into random position in a graph,
our attack develops a trigger generator that adaptively learns the
important trigger location and shape per backdoored graph. Our

--- PAGE 14 ---
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
Yuxin Yang1,2, Qiang Li1, Jinyuan Jia3, Yuan Hong4, Binghui Wang2
attack results show existing empirical defenses based on backdoor
detection or removal are ineffective. Then, we further develop a cer-
tified defense for backdoored FedGL model based on graph division
and majority vote-based ensemble. We derive the certified robust-
ness as well as its tightness w.r.t. clean graphs against arbitrary
trigger and backdoored graphs generated by our attack.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank all anonymous reviewers for the constructive comments.
Li is partially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation
of China under Grant No. 62072208, Key Research and Development
Projects of Jilin Province under Grant No. 20240302090GX. Hong is
partially supported by the National Science Foundation under grant
Nos. CNS-2302689, CNS-2308730, CNS-2319277 and CMMI-2326341.
Wang is partially supported by the National Science Foundation
under grant Nos. ECCS-2216926, CNS-2241713, CNS-2331302 and
CNS-2339686. Any opinions, findings and conclusions or recom-
mendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s)
and do not necessarily reflect the views of the funding agencies.
REFERENCES
[1] Jinheon Baek, Wonyong Jeong, Jiongdao Jin, Jaehong Yoon, and Sung Ju Hwang.
2023. Personalized subgraph federated learning. In International Conference on
Machine Learning. PMLR, 1396–1415.
[2] Eugene Bagdasaryan, Andreas Veit, Yiqing Hua, Deborah Estrin, and Vitaly
Shmatikov. 2020. How to backdoor federated learning. In International conference
on artificial intelligence and statistics . PMLR, 2938–2948.
[3] Albert-László Barabási and Réka Albert. 1999. Emergence of scaling in random
networks. science (1999).
[4] Arjun Nitin Bhagoji, Supriyo Chakraborty, Prateek Mittal, and Seraphin Calo.
2019. Analyzing federated learning through an adversarial lens. In International
Conference on Machine Learning . PMLR, 634–643.
[5] Aleksandar Bojchevski, Johannes Gasteiger, and Stephan Günnemann. 2020.
Efficient robustness certificates for discrete data: Sparsity-aware randomized
smoothing for graphs, images and more. In ICML.
[6] Xiaoyu Cao, Jinyuan Jia, and Neil Zhenqiang Gong. 2021. Provably secure
federated learning against malicious clients. In AAAI, Vol. 35. 6885–6893.
[7] Xiaoyu Cao, Jinyuan Jia, Zaixi Zhang, and Neil Zhenqiang Gong. 2023. Fedrecover:
Recovering from poisoning attacks in federated learning using historical infor-
mation. In IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) .
[8] Xiaoyu Cao, Zaixi Zhang, Jinyuan Jia, and Neil Zhenqiang Gong. 2022. Flcert:
Provably secure federated learning against poisoning attacks. IEEE Transactions
on Information Forensics and Security 17 (2022), 3691–3705.
[9] Kangjie Chen, Yuxian Meng, Xiaofei Sun, Shangwei Guo, Tianwei Zhang, Jiwei
Li, and Chun Fan. 2022. BadPre: Task-agnostic Backdoor Attacks to Pre-trained
NLP Foundation Models. In ICLR.
[10] Xinyun Chen, Chang Liu, Bo Li, Kimberly Lu, and Dawn Song. 2017. Targeted
backdoor attacks on deep learning systems using data poisoning. arXiv (2017).
[11] Joseph Clements and Yingjie Lao. 2018. Hardware trojan attacks on neural
networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1806.05768 (2018).
[12] Thomas G Dietterich. 2000. Ensemble methods in machine learning. In Interna-
tional workshop on multiple classifier systems . Springer, 1–15.
[13] Vijay Prakash Dwivedi, Chaitanya K Joshi, Anh Tuan Luu, Thomas Laurent,
Yoshua Bengio, and Xavier Bresson. 2023. Benchmarking Graph Neural Networks.
Journal of Machine Learning Research 24, 43 (2023), 1–48.
[14] FedML supports several out-of-the-box deep learning algorithms for various data
types, such as tabular, text, image, graphs, and Internet of Things (IoT) data. [n. d.].
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/part-2-federated-learning-
on-aws-with-fedml-health-analytics-without-sharing-sensitive-data/.
[15] Leilei Gan, Jiwei Li, Tianwei Zhang, Xiaoya Li, Yuxian Meng, Fei Wu, Yi Yang,
Shangwei Guo, and Chun Fan. 2022. Triggerless Backdoor Attack for NLP Tasks
with Clean Labels. In ACL-HLT.
[16] Yansong Gao, Change Xu, Derui Wang, Shiping Chen, Damith C Ranasinghe,
and Surya Nepal. 2019. Strip: A defence against trojan attacks on deep neural
networks. In ACSAC.
[17] Yunjie Ge, Qian Wang, Jiayuan Yu, Chao Shen, and Qi Li. 2023. Data Poisoning
and Backdoor Attacks on Audio Intelligence Systems. IEEE Communications
Magazine (2023).
[18] Edgar N Gilbert. 1959. Random graphs. The Annals of Mathematical Statistics 30,
4 (1959), 1141–1144.
[19] Michelle Goddard. 2017. The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR):
European regulation that has a global impact. International Journal of Market
Research 59, 6 (2017), 703–705.
[20] Xueluan Gong, Yanjiao Chen, Jianshuo Dong, and Qian Wang. 2022. ATTEQ-NN:
Attention-based QoE-aware Evasive Backdoor Attacks.. In NDSS.
[21] Xueluan Gong, Yanjiao Chen, Qian Wang, and Weihan Kong. 2022. Backdoor
attacks and defenses in federated learning: State-of-the-art, taxonomy, and future
directions. IEEE Wireless Communications (2022).
[22] Tianyu Gu, Brendan Dolan-Gavitt, and Siddharth Garg. 2017. Badnets: Identifying
vulnerabilities in the machine learning model supply chain. In Proc. of Machine
Learning and Computer Security Workshop .
[23] Hanqing Guo, Xun Chen, Junfeng Guo, Li Xiao, and Qiben Yan. 2023. MAS-
TERKEY: Practical Backdoor Attack Against Speaker Verification Systems. In
Annual International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking . 1–15.
[24] Wenbo Guo, Lun Wang, Xinyu Xing, Min Du, and Dawn Song. 2019. Tabor:
A highly accurate approach to inspecting and restoring trojan backdoors in ai
systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.01763 (2019).
[25] Will Hamilton, Zhitao Ying, and Jure Leskovec. 2017. Inductive representation
learning on large graphs. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems .
1024–1034.
[26] Chaoyang He, Keshav Balasubramanian, Emir Ceyani, Carl Yang, Han Xie, Lichao
Sun, Lifang He, Liangwei Yang, Philip S Yu, Yu Rong, et al. 2021. Fedgraphnn:
A federated learning system and benchmark for graph neural networks. arXiv
(2021).
[27] Chaoyang He, Emir Ceyani, Keshav Balasubramanian, Murali Annavaram, and
Salman Avestimehr. 2022. Spreadgnn: Decentralized multi-task federated learning
for graph neural networks on molecular data. In AAAI.
[28] Hanbin Hong, Binghui Wang, and Yuan Hong. 2022. Unicr: Universally approxi-
mated certified robustness via randomized smoothing. In European Conference
on Computer Vision. Springer, 86–103.
[29] How AWS uses graph neural networks to meet customer needs . [n. d.].
https://www.amazon.science/blog/how-aws-uses-graph-neural-networks-to-
meet-customer-needs/.
[30] Jinyuan Jia, Xiaoyu Cao, and Neil Zhenqiang Gong. 2021. Intrinsic certified
robustness of bagging against data poisoning attacks. In Proceedings of the AAAI
Conference on Artificial Intelligence.
[31] Jinyuan Jia, Yupei Liu, Xiaoyu Cao, and Neil Zhenqiang Gong. 2022. Certified
robustness of nearest neighbors against data poisoning and backdoor attacks. In
Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence .
[32] Thomas N Kipf and Max Welling. 2017. Semi-Supervised Classification with
Graph Convolutional Networks. In ICLR.
[33] Yuni Lai, Jialong Zhou, Xiaoge Zhang, and Kai Zhou. 2023. Towards Certified
Robustness of Graph Neural Networks in Adversarial AIoT Environments. IEEE
Internet of Things Journal (2023).
[34] Alexander Levine and Soheil Feizi. 2020. (De) Randomized smoothing for certifi-
able defense against patch attacks. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems.
[35] Alexander Levine and Soheil Feizi. 2020. Deep Partition Aggregation: Prov-
able Defenses against General Poisoning Attacks. In International Conference on
Learning Representations.
[36] Alexander Levine and Soheil Feizi. 2020. Robustness certificates for sparse
adversarial attacks by randomized ablation. In AAAI.
[37] Wenshuo Li, Jincheng Yu, Xuefei Ning, Pengjun Wang, Qi Wei, Yu Wang, and
Huazhong Yang. 2018. Hu-fu: Hardware and software collaborative attack frame-
work against neural networks. In ISVLSI. IEEE.
[38] Yige Li, Xixiang Lyu, Nodens Koren, Lingjuan Lyu, Bo Li, and Xingjun Ma. 2020.
Neural Attention Distillation: Erasing Backdoor Triggers from Deep Neural
Networks. In International Conference on Learning Representations .
[39] Wenlong Liao, Birgitte Bak-Jensen, Jayakrishnan Radhakrishna Pillai, Yuelong
Wang, and Yusen Wang. 2021. A review of graph neural networks and their
applications in power systems.Journal of Modern Power Systems and Clean Energy
(2021).
[40] Kang Liu, Brendan Dolan-Gavitt, and Siddharth Garg. 2018. Fine-pruning: De-
fending against backdooring attacks on deep neural networks. In RAID.
[41] Yingqi Liu, Wen-Chuan Lee, Guanhong Tao, Shiqing Ma, Yousra Aafer, and
Xiangyu Zhang. 2019. ABS: Scanning neural networks for back-doors by artificial
brain stimulation. In SIGSAC.
[42] Yingqi Liu, Shiqing Ma, Yousra Aafer, Wen-Chuan Lee, Juan Zhai, Weihang Wang,
and Xiangyu Zhang. 2018. Trojaning attack on neural networks. In NDSS.
[43] Brendan McMahan, Eider Moore, Daniel Ramage, Seth Hampson, and
Blaise Aguera y Arcas. 2017. Communication-efficient learning of deep net-
works from decentralized data. In Artificial intelligence and statistics.
[44] Thien Duc Nguyen, Phillip Rieger, Huili Chen, Hossein Yalame, Helen Möllering,
Hossein Fereidooni, Samuel Marchal, Markus Miettinen, Azalia Mirhoseini, Shaza
Zeitouni, et al. 2022. FLAME: Taming Backdoors in Federated Learning. In 31st
USENIX Security Symposium.

--- PAGE 15 ---
Distributed Backdoor Attacks on Federated Graph Learning and Certified Defenses
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
[45] Mustafa Safa Ozdayi, Murat Kantarcioglu, and Yulia R Gel. 2021. Defending
against backdoors in federated learning with robust learning rate. In AAAICon-
ference on Artificial Intelligence. 9268–9276.
[46] Xudong Pan, Mi Zhang, Beina Sheng, Jiaming Zhu, and Min Yang. 2022. Hidden
trigger backdoor attack on {NLP} models via linguistic style manipulation. In
31st USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 22) .
[47] Hengzhi Pei, Jinyuan Jia, Wenbo Guo, Bo Li, and Dawn Song. 2023. Textguard:
Provable defense against backdoor attacks on text classification. In NDSS.
[48] Liang Peng, Nan Wang, Nicha Dvornek, Xiaofeng Zhu, and Xiaoxiao Li. 2022.
Fedni: Federated graph learning with network inpainting for population-based
disease prediction. IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging (2022).
[49] Fanchao Qi, Mukai Li, Yangyi Chen, Zhengyan Zhang, Zhiyuan Liu, Yasheng
Wang, and Maosong Sun. 2021. Hidden Killer: Invisible Textual Backdoor Attacks
with Syntactic Trigger. In ACL.
[50] Phillip Rieger, Thien Duc Nguyen, Markus Miettinen, and Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi.
2022. Deepsight: Mitigating backdoor attacks in federated learning through deep
model inspection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2201.00763 (2022).
[51] Nirupam Roy, Haitham Hassanieh, and Romit Roy Choudhury. 2017. Backdoor:
Making microphones hear inaudible sounds. In Annual International Conference
on Mobile Systems, Applications, and Services .
[52] Aniruddha Saha, Akshayvarun Subramanya, and Hamed Pirsiavash. 2020. Hidden
trigger backdoor attacks. In AAAI.
[53] Sina Sajadmanesh and Daniel Gatica-Perez. 2021. Locally private graph neural
networks. In CCS.
[54] Ahmed Salem, Rui Wen, Michael Backes, Shiqing Ma, and Yang Zhang. 2022.
Dynamic Backdoor Attacks Against Machine Learning Models. In EuroSP.
[55] Franco Scarselli, Marco Gori, Ah Chung Tsoi, Markus Hagenbuchner, and Gabriele
Monfardini. 2008. The graph neural network model. IEEE transactions on neural
networks 20, 1 (2008), 61–80.
[56] Yan Scholten, Jan Schuchardt, Simon Geisler, Aleksandar Bojchevski, and Stephan
Günnemann. 2022. Randomized message-interception smoothing: Gray-box
certificates for graph neural networks. NeurIPS (2022).
[57] Cong Shi, Tianfang Zhang, Zhuohang Li, Huy Phan, Tianming Zhao, Yan Wang,
Jian Liu, Bo Yuan, and Yingying Chen. 2022. Audio-domain position-independent
backdoor attack via unnoticeable triggers. In Proceedings of the 28th Annual
International Conference on Mobile Computing And Networking .
[58] Ziteng Sun, Peter Kairouz, Ananda Theertha Suresh, and H Brendan McMahan.
2019. Can you really backdoor federated learning? arXiv (2019).
[59] Yue Tan, Yixin Liu, Guodong Long, Jing Jiang, Qinghua Lu, and Chengqi Zhang.
2023. Federated learning on non-iid graphs via structural knowledge sharing. In
AAAI.
[60] Guanhong Tao, Zhenting Wang, Shiwei Feng, Guangyu Shen, Shiqing Ma, and
Xiangyu Zhang. 2023. Distribution preserving backdoor attack in self-supervised
learning. In 2024 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) .
[61] Robert Tibshirani, Guenther Walther, and Trevor Hastie. 2001. Estimating the
number of clusters in a data set via the gap statistic.Journal of the Royal Statistical
Society: Series B (Statistical Methodology) (2001).
[62] Traffic prediction with advanced Graph Neural Networks. [n. d.].
https://deepmind.google/discover/blog/traffic-prediction-with-advanced-
graph-neural-networks/.
[63] Brandon Tran, Jerry Li, and Aleksander Madry. 2018. Spectral signatures in
backdoor attacks. In NeurIPS.
[64] Binghui Wang, Xiaoyu Cao, Jinyuan Jia, and Neil Zhenqiang Gong. 2020. On
Certifying Robustness against Backdoor Attacks via Randomized Smoothing. In
CVPR Workshop.
[65] Binghui Wang, Jinyuan Jia, Xiaoyu Cao, and Neil Zhenqiang Gong. 2021. Certified
robustness of graph neural networks against adversarial structural perturbation.
In KDD.
[66] Binghui Wang, Ang Li, Meng Pang, Hai Li, and Yiran Chen. 2022. Graphfl: A
federated learning framework for semi-supervised node classification on graphs.
In IEEE International Conference on Data Mining .
[67] Bolun Wang, Yuanshun Yao, Shawn Shan, Huiying Li, Bimal Viswanath, Haitao
Zheng, and Ben Y Zhao. 2019. Neural cleanse: Identifying and mitigating backdoor
attacks in neural networks. In IEEE S&P.
[68] Hongyi Wang, Kartik Sreenivasan, Shashank Rajput, Harit Vishwakarma, Saurabh
Agarwal, Jy-yong Sohn, Kangwook Lee, and Dimitris Papailiopoulos. 2020. Attack
of the tails: Yes, you really can backdoor federated learning. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems 33 (2020), 16070–16084.
[69] Ren Wang, Gaoyuan Zhang, Sijia Liu, Pin-Yu Chen, Jinjun Xiong, and Meng
Wang. 2020. Practical detection of trojan neural networks: Data-limited and
data-free cases. In ECCV. 222–238.
[70] Zhen Wang, Weirui Kuang, Yuexiang Xie, Liuyi Yao, Yaliang Li, Bolin Ding, and
Jingren Zhou. 2022. Federatedscope-gnn: Towards a unified, comprehensive and
efficient package for federated graph learning. In KDD.
[71] Duncan J Watts and Steven H Strogatz. 1998. Collective dynamics of ‘small-
world’networks. nature (1998).
[72] Maurice Weber, Xiaojun Xu, Bojan Karlaš, Ce Zhang, and Bo Li. 2023. Rab:
Provable robustness against backdoor attacks. In2023 IEEE Symposium on Security
and Privacy (SP). IEEE, 1311–1328.
[73] Emily Wenger, Josephine Passananti, Arjun Nitin Bhagoji, Yuanshun Yao, Haitao
Zheng, and Ben Y Zhao. 2021. Backdoor attacks against deep learning systems
in the physical world. In CVPR.
[74] Peter Wills and François G Meyer. 2020. Metrics for graph comparison: a practi-
tioner’s guide. Plos one 15, 2 (2020), e0228728.
[75] Chuhan Wu, Fangzhao Wu, Lingjuan Lyu, Tao Qi, Yongfeng Huang, and Xing
Xie. 2022. A federated graph neural network framework for privacy-preserving
personalization. Nature Communications 13, 1 (2022), 3091.
[76] Zonghan Wu, Shirui Pan, Fengwen Chen, Guodong Long, Chengqi Zhang, and
S Yu Philip. 2020. A comprehensive survey on graph neural networks. IEEE
transactions on neural networks and learning systems (2020), 4–24.
[77] Zhaohan Xi, Ren Pang, Shouling Ji, and Ting Wang. 2021. Graph backdoor. In
30th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 21) . 1523–1540.
[78] Chong Xiang, Arjun Nitin Bhagoji, Vikash Sehwag, and Prateek Mittal. 2021.
{PatchGuard}: A provably robust defense against adversarial patches via small re-
ceptive fields and masking. In 30th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security
21). 2237–2254.
[79] Chulin Xie, Minghao Chen, Pin-Yu Chen, and Bo Li. 2021. Crfl: Certifiably robust
federated learning against backdoor attacks. In ICML.
[80] Chulin Xie, Keli Huang, Pin-Yu Chen, and Bo Li. 2019. Dba: Distributed back-
door attacks against federated learning. In International conference on learning
representations.
[81] Chulin Xie, Yunhui Long, Pin-Yu Chen, Qinbin Li, Sanmi Koyejo, and Bo Li.
2023. Unraveling the Connections between Privacy and Certified Robustness in
Federated Learning Against Poisoning Attacks. In CCS.
[82] Han Xie, Jing Ma, Li Xiong, and Carl Yang. 2021. Federated graph classification
over non-iid graphs. In NeurIPS, Vol. 34.
[83] Han Xie, Li Xiong, and Carl Yang. 2023. Federated node classification over graphs
with latent link-type heterogeneity. In ACM Web Conference.
[84] Shangyu Xie, Yan Yan, and Yuan Hong. 2023. Stealthy 3D Poisoning Attack on
Video Recognition Models. IEEE Trans. Dependable Secur. Comput. 20, 2 (2023),
1730–1743. https://doi.org/10.1109/TDSC.2022.3163397
[85] Jing Xu, Rui Wang, Stefanos Koffas, Kaitai Liang, and Stjepan Picek. 2022. More
is better (mostly): On the backdoor attacks in federated graph neural networks.
In Annual Computer Security Applications Conference. 684–698.
[86] Keyulu Xu, Weihua Hu, Jure Leskovec, and Stefanie Jegelka. 2019. How Powerful
are Graph Neural Networks?. In ICLR.
[87] Keyulu Xu, Weihua Hu, Jure Leskovec, and Stefanie Jegelka. 2019. How powerful
are graph neural networks?. In ICLR.
[88] Shenao Yan, Shen Wang, Yue Duan, Hanbin Hong, Kiho Lee, Doowon Kim, and
Yuan Hong. 2024. An LLM-Assisted Easy-to-Trigger Backdoor Attack on Code
Completion Models: Injecting Disguised Vulnerabilities against Strong Detection.
In 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24) .
[89] Han Yang, Binghui Wang, Jinyuan Jia, et al . 2024. GNNCert: Deterministic
Certification of Graph Neural Networks against Adversarial Perturbations. In
The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations .
[90] Yuanshun Yao, Huiying Li, Haitao Zheng, and Ben Y Zhao. 2019. Latent Backdoor
Attacks on Deep Neural Networks. In CCS.
[91] Rex Ying, Ruining He, Kaifeng Chen, Pong Eksombatchai, William L Hamilton,
and Jure Leskovec. 2018. Graph convolutional neural networks for web-scale
recommender systems. In The 24th ACM SIGKDD international conference on
knowledge discovery & data mining .
[92] Ke Zhang, Carl Yang, Xiaoxiao Li, Lichao Sun, and Siu Ming Yiu. 2021. Subgraph
federated learning with missing neighbor generation. NeurIPS (2021).
[93] Xinyu Zhang, Hanbin Hong, Yuan Hong, Peng Huang, Binghui Wang, Zhongjie
Ba, and Kui Ren. 2024. Text-crs: A generalized certified robustness framework
against textual adversarial attacks. In IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy .
[94] Zaixi Zhang, Xiaoyu Cao, Jinyuan Jia, and Neil Zhenqiang Gong. 2022. FLDetector:
Defending federated learning against model poisoning attacks via detecting
malicious clients. In Proceedings of the 28th KDD . 2545–2555.
[95] Zaixi Zhang, Jinyuan Jia, Binghui Wang, and Neil Zhenqiang Gong. 2021. Back-
door attacks to graph neural networks. InProceedings of the 26th ACM Symposium
on Access Control Models and Technologies . 15–26.
[96] Zhengming Zhang, Ashwinee Panda, Linyue Song, Yaoqing Yang, Michael Ma-
honey, Prateek Mittal, Ramchandran Kannan, and Joseph Gonzalez. 2022. Neuro-
toxin: Durable backdoors in federated learning. In International Conference on
Machine Learning.
[97] Shihao Zhao, Xingjun Ma, Xiang Zheng, James Bailey, Jingjing Chen, and Yu-
Gang Jiang. 2020. Clean-label backdoor attacks on video recognition models. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF CVPR . 14443–14452.
[98] Jie Zhou, Ganqu Cui, Shengding Hu, Zhengyan Zhang, Cheng Yang, Zhiyuan Liu,
Lifeng Wang, Changcheng Li, and Maosong Sun. 2020. Graph neural networks:
A review of methods and applications. AI Open 1 (2020), 57–81.
[99] Rong Zhu, Kun Zhao, Hongxia Yang, Wei Lin, Chang Zhou, Baole Ai, Yong Li, and
Jingren Zhou. 2019. AliGraph: a comprehensive graph neural network platform.
Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment 12, 12 (2019).

--- PAGE 16 ---
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
Yuxin Yang1,2, Qiang Li1, Jinyuan Jia3, Yuan Hong4, Binghui Wang2
A NETWORK ARCHITECTURE IN OPT-GDBA
Table 7: Detailed Network architecture of the adaptive trigger
generator in Opt-GDBA. 𝐺𝑖 is a clean graph from client 𝑖,
and 𝐺𝑖
𝐵 is its backdoored counterpart. Trigger V𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 indicates
V𝑖
𝑑𝑒 𝑓 or V𝑖𝑐𝑢𝑠 , and 𝑛 = |V𝑖 |. 𝑑 is the feature dimension. Mask
is a binary matrix taking a value 1 at position V𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 and 0
otherwise, signifying our focus solely on edges and node
features at the trigger location.
Network Input Network Architecture Output
Linear-𝑛 & ReLU & Dropout-0.05
EdgeView A𝑖 ∈ R𝑛×𝑛 Linear-𝑛 & ReLU & Dropout-0.05 e𝑖 ∈ R𝑛
Linear-𝑛 & Sigmoid
AvgPooling-𝑛
Linear-𝑑 & ReLU & Dropout-0.05
NodeView X𝑖 ∈ R𝑛×𝑑 Linear-𝑑 & ReLU & Dropout-0.05 n𝑖 ∈ R𝑛
Linear-𝑑 & Sigmoid
AvgPooling-𝑑
Linear-𝑛 & ReLU & Dropout-0.05
EdgeAtt A𝑖
𝐵 ∈ R𝑛×𝑛 Linear-𝑛 & ReLU & Dropout-0.05 E𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 ∈ R𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 ×𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖
V𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 ∈ R𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 ×𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 Linear-𝑛 & Sigmoid
Mask-𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖
Linear-𝑑 & ReLU & Dropout-0.05
NodeAtt X𝑖
𝐵 ∈ R𝑛×𝑑 Linear-𝑑 & ReLU & Dropout-0.05 N𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 ∈ R𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 ×𝑑
V𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 ∈ R𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 ×𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 Linear-𝑑 & ReLU
Mask-𝑑
EdgeEmb Linear-𝑛 × 𝑛 I𝑒 ∈ R𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 ×𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖
V𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 ∈ R𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 ×𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 Mask-𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖
NodeEmb Linear-𝑛 × 𝑑 I𝑛 ∈ R𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 ×𝑑
V𝑖
𝑡𝑟𝑖 ∈ R𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 ×𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 Mask-𝑑
B PROOFS
Proof of Theorem 1: Assume the perturbation size is 𝑚. Un-
der our graph division strategy, at most 𝑚 of the 𝑇 subgraphs
in 𝐺 1, 𝐺2, · · ·, 𝐺𝑇 are adversarially perturbed by the trigger. In
other words, at most 𝑚 of the 𝑇 subgraphs in ˜𝐺 1, ˜𝐺 2, · · ·, ˜𝐺𝑇 are
different from 𝐺 1, 𝐺2, · · ·, 𝐺𝑇 . Hence at most 𝑚 predicted labels on
˜𝐺 1, ˜𝐺 2, · · ·, ˜𝐺𝑇 are different from those on𝐺 1, 𝐺2, · · ·, 𝐺𝑇 . Suppose
𝑇𝑦 and 𝑇𝑧 represent the largest and second large number outputted
by 𝑓𝐵 on predicting 𝐺 1, 𝐺2, · · ·, 𝐺𝑇 , and ˜𝑇𝑦 and ˜𝑇𝑧 denote the cor-
responding numbers outputted by 𝑓𝐵 on predicting ˜𝐺 1, ˜𝐺 2, · · ·, ˜𝐺𝑇 .
Then we have the following equations:
𝑇𝑦 − 𝑚 ≤ ˜𝑇𝑦 ≤ 𝑇𝑦 + 𝑚,
𝑇𝑧 − 𝑚 ≤ ˜𝑇𝑧 ≤ 𝑇𝑧 + 𝑚.
(13)
To ensure our ensemble graph classifier𝑔𝐵 still predicts 𝑦 for 𝐺𝑝,
we require ˜𝑇𝑦 > ( ˜𝑇𝑧 − 1 (𝑦 < 𝑧)), where 1 (𝑦 < 𝑧) is due to the tie
breaking mechanism (i.e., we choose a label with a smaller number
when ties exist). Combing with Equation (13), we require
𝑇𝑦 − 𝑚 > 𝑇𝑧 + 𝑚 − 1 (𝑦 < 𝑧),
Or
𝑚 < 𝑇𝑦 − 𝑇𝑧 + 1 (𝑦 < 𝑧)
2 .
Proof of Theorem 2: We use proof by contradiction. Specifically,
we show that, for any 𝑚 satisfying 𝑚 > 𝑚∗, i.e., at least 𝑚∗ + 1
perturbation size (or𝑚∗ +1 subgraphs {𝐺𝑡 }𝑇
𝑡 =1 are corrupted), there
exists a base classifier 𝑓 ′
𝐵 that makes the ensemble classifier 𝑔𝐵 do
not predict ˜𝐺 as the label 𝑦, i.e., 𝑔𝐵 ( ˜𝐺) ≠ 𝑔𝐵 (𝐺) = 𝑦.
For simplicity, we assume 𝑚∗ + 1 out of the 𝑇 graphs {𝐺𝑡 }𝑇
𝑡 =1
are corrupted. That is, we select 𝑚∗ + 1 sub-graphs among {𝐺𝑡 }𝑇
𝑡 =1
that are predicted as the label 𝑦 and corrupt them. Moreover, we let
𝑓 ′
𝐵 predict the label 𝑧 for all the 𝑚∗ + 1 corrupted sub-graphs, i.e.,
𝑧 = arg max𝑙≠𝑦 (𝑇𝑙 − 1 (𝑦 < 𝑙)). Hence, we have
˜𝑇𝑦 = 𝑇𝑦 − (𝑚∗ + 1), ˜𝑇𝑧 = 𝑇𝑧 + (𝑚∗ + 1).
Since 𝑚∗ is the largest number such that Equation 13 is satisfied,
i.e., 𝑇𝑦 − 𝑚∗ > 𝑇𝑧 − 1 (𝑦 < 𝑧) + 𝑚∗ holds. Thus,
𝑇𝑦 − (𝑚∗ + 1) ≤ 𝑇𝑧 − 1 (𝑦 < 𝑧) + ( 𝑚∗ + 1).
Or ˜𝑇𝑦 ≤ ˜𝑇𝑧. Hence, under 𝑓 ′
𝐵, 𝑔𝐵 ( ˜𝐺) = 𝑧 ≠ 𝑦 = 𝑔𝐵 (𝐺), if 𝑦 > 𝑧.
Proof of Theorem 3: Our ensemble graph classifier𝑔𝐵 returns the
label with the largest frequency of the predictions on 𝑇 subgrpah,
or the label with a smaller index where there are ties. Hence, to
ensure the backdoored graph𝐺𝐵 is still predicted as the target label
𝑦𝐵 under 𝑔𝐵, it must satisfy 𝑇𝑦𝐵 > 𝑇𝑧𝐵 or 𝑇𝑦𝐵 = 𝑇𝑧𝐵 if 𝑦𝐵 < 𝑧𝐵, or
𝑇𝑦𝐵 > 𝑇𝑧𝐵 − 1 (𝑦𝐵 < 𝑧𝐵). Otherwise, it will be provably predicted
as a non-target label.
C DATASET STATISTICS AND DESCRIPTIONS
Table 8 shows the dataset statistics and training/testing set. The
descriptions of these graphs datasets are as below:
BITCOIN: It is used for graph-based fraudulent transaction de-
tection. We obtain 658 labeled transactions, where labels 0 and 1
correspond to illicit and licit transactions, respectively.
MUTAG: It comprises of molecular data. Each molecule is asso-
ciated with a binary label indicating its classification as either a
steroid compound or not.
PROTEINS: It is used for protein structure analysis. In this dataset,
the nodes represent three primary elements of a protein, including
helix, sheet, and turn; the edges signify the relationships between
these structural elements.
DD: It includes protein structures, with each protein represented as
a graph. The task is to classify these protein structures into either
enzymes or non-enzymes.
COLLAB: It is a collection of scientific collaborations. Labels 0, 1,
and 2 denote a researcher’s ego network field, specifically High
Energy Physics, Condensed Matter Physics, and Astro Physics.
RDT-M5K: It is a social dataset. Each graph represents an online
discussion thread, where nodes represent users and edges signify
discussions between users. Additionally, each graph is labeled with
the community or subreddit to which it belongs.
D MORE EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
D.1 More Attack Results
Comprehensive attack results: Table 9 shows the comprehen-
sive results of the compared attacks in all experimental settings.
Overall, all attacks can achieve a close MA as the MA under no
attack (their difference is ≤ 4 in all cases). Rand-GDBA outper-
forms Rand-GCBA with a gain from 2% to 29%, indicating the
distributed graph backdoor is more effective than the centralized
counterpart. Further, our Opt-GDBA achieves much better BA and
is more stealthy than Rand-GDBA—our attack’s gain is ranging
from 14% to 56% with an average more than 30%. Comparing the

--- PAGE 17 ---
Distributed Backdoor Attacks on Federated Graph Learning and Certified Defenses
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
Table 8: Dataset statistics and training/testing graphs.
Datasets #Graphs #Classes Avg. #Node Avg. # Edge #Training graphs (per class) #Testing graphs (per class)
1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5
BITCOIN 658 2 14.64 14.18 219 219 - - - 110 110 - - -
MUTAG 188 2 17.93 19.80 83 42 - - - 42 21 - - -
PROTEINS 1110 2 37.72 70.35 440 300 - - - 220 150 - - -
DD 950 2 208.3 518.76 330 303 - - - 165 152 - - -
COLLAB 4981 3 73.49 2336.66 517 1589 1215 - - 258 794 608 - -
RDT-M5K 2613 5 208.0 227.66 120 556 423 545 98 61 277 212 272 49
Table 9: Comprehensive results of the compared attacks.
Customized-Trigger (𝑛∗
𝑡𝑟𝑖 = 5) Definable-Trigger
Datasets 𝜌 Opt-GDBA 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 Opt-GDBA Rand-GDBA Rand-GCBA
(No attack) (MA / BA) 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖 (MA / BA) 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖 (MA / BA) 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖 (MA / BA) 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖
3 0.73 / 0.97 (↑0.48) 1.38 0.71 / 0.49 2 0.71 / 0.38 3
10% 0.71 / 0.98 (↑0.43) 4.29 3.88 4 0.72 / 0.98 (↑0.43) 2.88 0.71 / 0.55 4 0.71 / 0.47 6
5 0.73 / 0.98 (↑0.34) 4.95 0.71 / 0.64 6 0.73 / 0.51 10
3 0.73 / 0.99 (↑0.44) 1.53 0.72 / 0.55 2 0.72 / 0.53 3
BITCOIN 20% 0.72 / 0.99 (↑0.36) 4.29 4.20 4 0.72 / 0.99 (↑0.36) 3.08 0.71 / 0.63 4 0.72 / 0.57 6
(MA=0.73) 5 0.72 / 0.99 (↑0.31) 5.09 0.71 / 0.68 6 0.71 / 0.61 10
3 0.72 / 0.99 (↑0.22) 1.70 0.72 / 0.77 2 0.72 / 0.66 3
30% 0.72 / 0.98 (↑0.24) 4.16 4.35 4 0.72 / 1.00 (↑0.26) 3.27 0.71 / 0.74 4 0.71 / 0.62 6
5 0.72 / 1.00 (↑0.15) 5.35 0.71 / 0.85 6 0.71 / 0.77 10
3 0.71 / 0.83 (↑0.45) 1.67 0.71 / 0.38 2 0.71 / 0.31 3
10% 0.75 / 0.86 (↑0.43) 3.64 3.52 4 0.73 / 0.84 (↑0.41) 3.33 0.73 / 0.43 4 0.71 / 0.41 6
5 0.71 / 0.88 (↑0.41) 5.83 0.71 / 0.47 6 0.71 / 0.42 10
3 0.74 / 0.85 (↑0.37) 1.64 0.70 / 0.48 2 0.73 / 0.47 3
MUTAG 20% 0.72 / 0.95 (↑0.43) 3.51 2.31 4 0.71 / 0.85 (↑0.33) 3.41 0.71 / 0.52 4 0.73 / 0.48 6
(MA=0.74) 5 0.73 / 0.86 (↑0.28) 5.88 0.73 / 0.58 6 0.71 / 0.49 10
3 0.71 / 0.95 (↑0.43) 1.60 0.71 / 0.52 2 0.72 / 0.48 3
30% 0.74 / 0.96 (↑0.29) 3.79 2.32 4 0.71 / 0.97 (↑0.30) 3.27 0.71 / 0.67 4 0.71 / 0.56 6
5 0.74 / 0.97 (↑0.25) 5.63 0.73 / 0.72 6 0.73 / 0.63 10
3 0.73 / 0.82 (↑0.48) 1.18 0.72 / 0.34 2 0.71 / 0.19 3
10% 0.74 / 0.89 (↑0.54) 3.24 2.68 4 0.72 / 0.88 (↑0.53) 2.15 0.71 / 0.35 4 0.71 / 0.23 6
5 0.73 / 0.91 (↑0.56) 3.56 0.71 / 0.35 6 0.71 / 0.25 10
3 0.71 / 0.87 (↑0.40) 1.12 0.71 / 0.47 2 0.73 / 0.32 3
PROTEINS 20% 0.72 / 0.90 (↑0.39) 3.75 2.56 4 0.72 / 0.90 (↑0.39) 2.07 0.70 / 0.51 4 0.71 / 0.33 6
(MA=0.73) 5 0.72 / 0.92 (↑0.33) 3.36 0.71 / 0.59 6 0.71 / 0.39 10
3 0.72 / 0.94 (↑0.53) 1.05 0.71 / 0.41 2 0.71 / 0.33 3
30% 0.72 / 0.94 (↑0.41) 3.17 2.54 4 0.71 / 0.94 (↑0.41) 2.07 0.74 / 0.53 4 0.72 / 0.36 6
5 0.71 / 0.96 (↑0.37) 3.44 0.71 / 0.59 6 0.72 / 0.37 10
3 0.72 / 0.78 (↑0.50) 1.29 0.72 / 0.28 2 0.72 / 0.18 3
10% 0.72 / 0.78 (↑0.45) 3.10 1.64 4 0.71 / 0.77 (↑0.44) 3.12 0.71 / 0.33 4 0.72 / 0.27 6
5 0.72 / 0.80 (↑0.47) 5.42 0.72 / 0.33 6 0.71 / 0.31 10
3 0.73 / 0.76 (↑0.38) 1.40 0.72 / 0.38 2 0.71 / 0.32 3
DD 20% 0.72 / 0.86 (↑0.46) 3.19 1.57 4 0.72 / 0.78 (↑0.38) 2.97 0.72 / 0.40 4 0.72 / 0.33 6
(MA= 0.73) 5 0.73 / 0.87 (↑0.43) 5.04 0.73 / 0.44 6 0.72 / 0.36 10
3 0.72 / 0.83 (↑0.35) 1.51 0.72 / 0.48 2 0.71 / 0.41 3
30% 0.73 / 0.90 (↑0.41) 3.57 1.79 4 0.72 / 0.90 (↑0.41) 3.26 0.71 / 0.49 4 0.72 / 0.44 6
5 0.72 / 0.92 (↑0.36) 5.22 0.72 / 0.56 6 0.72 / 0.48 10
3 0.74 / 0.80 (↑0.36) 1.71 0.72 / 0.44 2 0.73 / 0.37 3
10% 0.72 / 0.83 (↑0.30) 4.43 4.50 4 0.74 / 0.80 (↑0.27) 3.28 0.73 / 0.53 4 0.71 / 0.34 6
5 0.75 / 0.82 (↑0.23) 5.85 0.73 / 0.59 6 0.73 / 0.49 10
3 0.74 / 0.81 (↑0.30) 1.77 0.71 / 0.51 2 0.73 / 0.37 3
COLLAB 20% 0.73 / 0.86 (↑0.32) 4.68 4.51 4 0.73 / 0.84 (↑0.30) 3.34 0.73 / 0.54 4 0.71 / 0.37 6
(MA=0.75) 5 0.73 / 0.85 (↑0.29) 5.72 0.73 / 0.56 6 0.71 / 0.42 10
3 0.71 / 0.85 (↑0.25) 1.73 0.69 / 0.60 2 0.73 / 0.41 3
30% 0.71 / 0.92 (↑0.31) 4.59 4.72 4 0.71 / 0.90 (↑0.29) 3.58 0.72 / 0.61 4 0.71 / 0.46 6
5 0.71 / 0.91 (↑0.26) 5.99 0.71 / 0.65 6 0.71 / 0.47 10
3 0.52 / 0.85 (↑0.42) 1.51 0.52 / 0.43 2 0.52 / 0.26 3
10% 0.51 / 0.89 (↑0.38) 4.18 3.42 4 0.52 / 0.90 (↑0.39) 3.41 0.51 / 0.51 4 0.52 / 0.29 6
5 0.53 / 0.90 (↑0.38) 5.39 0.52 / 0.52 6 0.53 / 0.36 10
3 0.52 / 0.87 (↑0.35) 1.62 0.52 / 0.52 2 0.52 / 0.37 3
RDT-M5K 20% 0.52 / 0.90 (↑0.33) 4.51 3.59 4 0.52 / 0.89 (↑0.32) 3.27 0.52 / 0.57 4 0.52 / 0.40 6
(MA= 0.53) 5 0.52 / 0.90 (↑0.33) 5.45 0.53 / 0.57 6 0.52 / 0.42 10
3 0.53 / 0.89 (↑0.22) 1.64 0.52 / 0.67 2 0.52 / 0.45 3
30% 0.52 / 0.92 (↑0.25) 4.49 3.86 4 0.52 / 0.90 (↑0.23) 3.33 0.51 / 0.67 4 0.51 / 0.47 6
5 0.52 / 0.92 (↑0.14) 5.59 0.51 / 0.78 6 0.51 / 0.55 10
two proposed trigger location learning schemes in Opt-GDBA, the
Customized-Trigger is more stealthy than the Definable-Trigger,
i.e., its generated triggers has a smaller size under the same MA/BA.
Comparing [85] and our way for backdoor testing in Rand-
GDBA: Table 10 shows the comparison results. The original way
[85] combines the local triggers in all malicious clients into a global
trigger. That is, the total number of edges (nodes) in the global
trigger is the sum of that in all the local triggers. Such a large
trigger ensures Rand-GDBA (raw) exhibiting a higher BA than
Rand-GDBA (ours) for backdoor testing, but also largely changing
the structure of testings graphs. As a reference, we also show the
results of our Opt-GDBA. Still, our Opt-GDBA not only achieves
much higher BA but is also more stealthy.
Attack results of Opt-GDBA on less #malicious clients and
poison rate: In the paper, we follow prior works [80, 95] by setting
𝜌 = 20% (8 malicious clients) and 50% poison rate. Here, we add

--- PAGE 18 ---
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
Yuxin Yang1,2, Qiang Li1, Jinyuan Jia3, Yuan Hong4, Binghui Wang2
Table 10: We compare the raw way [85] and our way of backdoored testing in Rand-GDBA.
Attack Dataset BITCOIN MUTAG PROTEINS DD COLLAB RDT-M5K
MA/BA 0.72/0.85 0.71/0.61 0.71/0.69 0.72/0.58 0.73/0.68 0.52/0.69
Rand-GDBA (raw) [85] NetSim (↑) 0.32 0.41 0.55 0.95 0.87 0.90
DeltaCon (↑) 0.44 0.53 0.69 0.96 0.93 0.94
MA/BA 0.71/0.63 0.71/0.52 0.70/0.51 0.72/0.40 0.73/0.54 0.52/0.57
Rand-GDBA (ours) NetSim (↑) 0.52 0.88 0.86 0.99 0.99 0.98
DeltaCon (↑) 0.63 0.90 0.91 0.99 0.99 0.98
MA/BA 0.72/0.99 0.71/0.85 0.72/0.90 0.72/0.78 0.73/0.84 0.52/0.89
Our Opt-GDBA NetSim (↑) 0.55 0.90 0.88 0.99 0.99 0.98
(Definable-Trigger) DeltaCon (↑) 0.65 0.93 0.94 0.99 0.99 0.99
MA/BA 0.72/0.99 0.72/0.95 0.72/0.90 0.72/0.86 0.73/0.86 0.52/0.90
Our Opt-GDBA NetSim (↑) 0.54 0.87 0.86 0.99 0.99 0.98
(Customized-Trigger) DeltaCon (↑) 0.64 0.92 0.91 1.00 0.99 0.98
Table 11: Results of Opt-GDBA with less #malicious clients
(4 and 1) and less poisoning rate (10%).
Dataset Customized-Trigger Definable-Trigger
(4 mali. clients) (MA / BA) 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖 (MA / BA) 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖
BITCOIN 0.72 / 0.90 4.29 3.88 0.72 / 0.89 4 2.20
MUTAG 0.73 / 0.85 3.41 2.10 0.71 / 0.82 4 1.53
PROTEINS 0.72 / 0.81 3.96 2.72 0.73 / 0.86 4 2.33
DD 0.72 / 0.74 3.04 1.66 0.71 / 0.77 4 3.14
COLLAB 0.72 / 0.77 4.52 4.67 0.72 / 0.76 4 3.61
RDT-M5K 0.52 / 0.84 4.32 3.78 0.53 / 0.82 4 3.42
(1 mali. client) (MA / BA) 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖 (MA / BA) 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖
BITCOIN 0.72 / 0.74 4.92 2.61 0.72 / 0.70 4 1.53
MUTAG 0.72 / 0.76 3.39 2.37 0.73 / 0.73 4 3.18
PROTEINS 0.72 / 0.78 3.88 2.26 0.72 / 0.70 4 2.05
DD 0.72 / 0.67 3.37 1.75 0.72 / 0.69 4 3.25
COLLAB 0.73 / 0.70 4.34 4.47 0.72 / 0.68 4 3.44
RDT-M5K 0.52 / 0.72 4.57 3.65 0.52 / 0.71 4 3.50
Table 12: Attack results of Opt-GDBA with varying numbers
of clients: 𝐶 = 20 and 60 (30 for MUTAG due to its limited
size). The default value is 𝐶 = 40 in the paper.
Dataset 𝐶 Customized-Trigger Definable-Trigger
(MA / BA) 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖 (MA / BA) 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖
BITCOIN 20 0.71 / 0.95 3.99 2.20 0.72 / 0.94 4 1.72
60 0.72 / 0.93 4.19 2.57 0.72 / 0.95 4 2.64
MUTAG 20 0.71 / 0.87 3.43 2.92 0.71 / 0.85 4 3.96
30 0.74 / 0.90 3.50 2.81 0.74 / 0.88 4 4.07
PROTEINS 20 0.72 / 0.90 3.87 2.28 0.72 / 0.89 4 2.26
60 0.72 / 0.93 3.23 2.47 0.72 / 0.91 4 2.14
DD 20 0.72 / 0.76 3.04 1.67 0.72 / 0.77 4 3.03
60 0.72 / 0.81 3.42 1.51 0.72 / 0.78 4 2.97
COLLAB 20 0.72 / 0.86 4.66 4.47 0.72 / 0.87 4 3.47
60 0.73 / 0.85 4.53 4.62 0.72 / 0.85 4 3.61
RDT-M5K 20 0.53 / 0.91 4.70 3.81 0.52 / 0.90 4 3.33
60 0.52 / 0.90 4.44 3.67 0.52 / 0.90 4 3.92
results with less (4 and 1) malicious clients and less (10%) poison
rate and the backdoor attack results of Opt-GDBA are shown inTa-
ble 11. We can see: 1) Our Opt-GDBA remainshighly effective with
4 malicious client and 10% poison rate, i.e., high BA and no/marginal
MA loss; 2) A slight/moderate reduction in BA is observed with only
1 malicious client. This is understandable as a single malicious client
lacks the strong capability to execute a distributed backdoor attack.
Attack results on varying number of clients. Table 12 shows
the Opt-GDBA results on 20 and 60 clients (default value is 40). We
Table 13: Attack results of Opt-GDBA on non-IID and imbal-
anced datasets.
Dataset Scenes Customized-Trigger Definable-Trigger
(MA / BA) 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖 (MA / BA) 𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖 𝑒𝑡𝑟𝑖
BITCOIN Non-IID 0.72 / 0.98 3.55 2.60 0.72 / 0.96 4 2.75
Imbalanced 0.72 / 0.94 4.10 3.34 0.72 / 0.97 4 3.44
MUTAG Non-IID 0.71 / 0.95 3.51 2.81 0.70 / 0.94 4 3.46
Imbalanced 0.74 / 0.93 3.73 3.28 0.74 / 0.90 4 2.51
PROTEINS Non-IID 0.72 / 0.94 3.77 2.66 0.72 / 0.93 4 2.68
Imbalanced 0.72 / 0.90 3.29 1.96 0.72 / 0.89 4 2.45
DD Non-IID 0.72 / 0.87 3.12 1.38 0.72 / 0.75 4 2.53
Imbalanced 0.72 / 0.82 3.24 1.27 0.72 / 0.74 4 2.48
COLLAB Non-IID 0.72 / 0.85 4.17 4.42 0.73 / 0.84 4 3.76
Imbalanced 0.72 / 0.83 4.25 4.63 0.72 / 0.82 4 3.37
RDT-M5K Non-IID 0.52 / 0.89 4.07 3.53 0.52 / 0.88 4 3.61
Imbalanced 0.52 / 0.90 4.33 3.67 0.52 / 0.90 4 3.44
can see Opt-GDBA consistently maintains both high MA and BA,
showing its performance is insensitive to the number of clients.
Attack results on non-IID and imbalanced datasets. Table 13
shows the attack results of Opt-GDBA on non-IID and imbalanced
datasets. The non-IID datasets are generated by letting each client
holds a single label data, while the imbalanced datasets are gener-
ated via letting different clients hold different ratios of data from
different classes. We can see Opt-GDBA remains effective with
non-IID and imbalanced datasets.
Defending Opt-GDBA with model pruning and distillation.
Table 14 shows the results. We can see: 1) model pruning is ineffec-
tive against Opt-GDBA with a small pruning rate 𝛼. With a larger
pruning rate (e.g., 𝛼 = 20%), though BA is somewhat reduced, MA
is significantly reduced; and 2) distillation [38] is also ineffective.
D.2 More Defense Results
Defense results on varying number of clients. Figure 12 shows
our defense results vs varying number of clients 𝐶. We can see our
defense is effective and relatively stable across different𝐶.
Defense results on non-IID on imbalanced datasets. Figure 13
shows our defense results on non-IID on imbalanced datasets. The
non-IID datasets are generated by letting each client holds a single
label data, while the imbalanced datasets are generated via letting
different clients hold different ratios of data from different classes
(e.g., for binary-class data, client i holds 90% label A data, while
client 2 holds 90% label B data). Still, our defense is effective.

--- PAGE 19 ---
Distributed Backdoor Attacks on Federated Graph Learning and Certified Defenses
Conference acronym CCS’24, Salt Lake City, U.S.A,
Table 14: Attack results of Opt-GDBA against model pruning (with the pruning rate 𝛼) and distillation.
Dataset Customized-Trigger Definable-Trigger Dataset Customized-Trigger Definable-Trigger
(MA / BA) (MA / BA) (MA / BA) (MA / BA)
BITCOIN (no attack) 0.72 / 0.90 0.72 / 0.89 DD (no attack) 0.72 / 0.74 0.71 / 0.77
BITCOIN (𝛼 = 20%) 0.57 / 0.73 0.55 / 0.69 DD (𝛼 = 20%) 0.52 / 0.62 0.48 / 0.67
BITCOIN (𝛼 = 15%) 0.67 / 0.85 0.69 / 0.88 DD (𝛼 = 15%) 0.55 / 0.71 0.52 / 0.69
BITCOIN (𝛼 = 10%) 0.69 / 0.90 0.69 / 0.89 DD (𝛼 = 10%) 0.62 / 0.72 0.64 / 0.76
BITCOIN (distillation) 0.72 / 0.87 0.72 / 0.89 DD (distillation) 0.72 / 0.72 0.72 / 0.75
MUTAG (no attack) 0.73 / 0.85 0.71 / 0.82 COLLAB (no attack) 0.72 / 0.80 0.73 / 0.79
MUTAG (𝛼 = 20%) 0.33 / 0.00 0.33 / 0.00 COLLAB (𝛼 = 20%) 0.57 / 0.65 0.59 / 0.71
MUTAG (𝛼 = 15%) 0.65 / 0.65 0.66 / 0.80 COLLAB (𝛼 = 15%) 0.63 / 0.75 0.65 / 0.74
MUTAG (𝛼 = 10%) 0.72 / 0.82 0.68 / 0.82 COLLAB (𝛼 = 10%) 0.71 / 0.80 0.72 / 0.78
MUTAG (distillation) 0.73 / 0.79 0.73 / 0.80 COLLAB (distillation) 0.72 / 0.79 0.72 / 0.78
PROTEINS (no attack) 0.72 / 0.81 0.73 / 0.86 RDT-M5K (no attack) 0.52 / 0.84 0.53 / 0.82
PROTEINS (𝛼 = 20%) 0.58 / 0.54 0.59 / 0.65 RDT-M5K (𝛼 = 20%) 0.34 / 0.67 0.35 / 0.62
PROTEINS (𝛼 = 15%) 0.61 / 0.65 0.62 / 0.77 RDT-M5K (𝛼 = 15%) 0.41 / 0.74 0.43 / 0.72
PROTEINS (𝛼 = 10%) 0.65 / 0.72 0.71 / 0.86 RDT-M5K (𝛼 = 10%) 0.52 / 0.81 0.51 / 0.79
PROTEINS (distillation) 0.72 / 0.80 0.74 / 0.86 RDT-M5K (distillation) 0.52 / 0.81 0.52 / 0.80
Figure 12: Certified MA vs. varying number of clients.
Figure 13: Certified MA vs. Non-IID & Unbalanced datasets.
